2167888571000070000000000	"An Upper Jurassic (Oxfordian) reef mound in the Palmers Wood field area of the Weald basin, southern England, clearly shows the relationship of facies, diagenesis, and porosity development to relative sea level changes. The coral-microbial reef mound was initiated over a drowned oolite shoal during a third-order marine transgression and exhibits changes in coral morphology from base to top as the reef mound caught up with sea level during the subsequent highstand. During the highstand, extensive encrustation of the reef mound took place by microbial, stromatolitic cements, with subsequent porosity loss. During the following lowstand of relative sea level, extensive leaching of the aragonitic corals took place, and a lowstand wedge accumulated down-ramp. Porosity was lost during burial-related cementation and compaction. Coral-microbial reef mounds of this type have moderate potential for porosity formation, unlike tighter, deeper ramp reefs in the Jurassic, which are less prone to subaerial leaching and have less potential for secondary porosity development because they are less rich in aragonitic components. Although the Upper Jurassic reef mound is only a minor contributor to reservoirs in the Palmers Wood field, it may provide a model for other Upper Jurassic reef plays."
2924034574000460000000000	"Recent studies recognized distinct stromatolite provinces in Hamelin Pool, Western Australia, each with morphologically distinct stromatolite structures paired with characteristic shelf physiography. In the present paper, we couple detailed lithofacies mapping with Hamelin Pool bathymetry and consider physiography as a control of sedimentation processes, including stromatolite development. Bathymetric transects, derived from a high-resolution bathymetry map with depths from to meters, allow calculation of slope gradients in the provinces. As in other settings, bathymetry is linked to energy regimes, which in turn appear to be coupled with variations in stromatolite morphologies and associated lithofacies as follows: () low-gradient ramps with low-energy settings are associated with sheet mats and elongate-clustered stromatolites that exhibit regular spatial patterns, possibly indicative of self-organization; () low gradients coupled with high-energy settings resulting from strong winds result in seif stromatolites with pronounced directional bands; () medium to steep gradients coupled with medium to high energy are associated with individual and merged stromatolites, often with thin basal necks; () headlands and promontories where the topography deflects currents are associated with elongate-nested stromatolites; and () medium- to high-energy slopes typically found at promontory edges and shelf margins are dominated by blocky pavement. Observations linking stromatolite morphology to physiography in a modern microbial system provide insight into the long-lived debate about biology versus environment in controlling stromatolite morphology. When physiography leads to a high-energy regime, environmental controls are the main factor determining stromatolite morphology. In contrast, when physiography promotes a low-energy environment, the response of biological communities becomes the main driver of macroscale stromatolite morphology."
2019761940	"ABSTRACT The m thick upper Precambrian Elisabeth Bjerg Formation in East Greenland represents a period of intermittent siliciclastic-dominated marine deposition on a carbonate ramp. Four depositional systems are identified within the exposed formation: () a siliciclastic ramp system formed by prograding shoreface or delta complexes; () a carbonate outer-ramp system comprising rhythmically interbedded carbonate mudstone, subtidal stromatolitic biostromes, calcarenite deposits, and siliciclastic mudstone; () a transitional siliciclastic-carbonate system consisting of - m thick subtidal rhythmites, created by carbonate mudstone and conglomerates alternating with siliciclastic mudstone; and () a carbonate inner-ramp system consisting of intertidal and subtidal channel deposits. On th basis of stacking patterns within the depositional systems, lowstand, transgressive, and highstand systems tracts can be inferred, which are traceable across the entire outcrop area, more than km along and km perpendicular to basin strike. The systems tracts combine to form five - m thick sequences within the Elisabeth Bjerg Formation and two that extend into the surrounding formations. All of the sequences show the same basic internal architecture, most likely developed in response to third-order glacio-eustatic changes in sea level. The paleogeographic evolution, and the response of the four depositional systems to cyclic changes in sea level, are interpreted using a ramp-to-basin model. During lowstands, sedimentation was dominated by siliciclastic deposition. Stranded lowstand shoreline deposits were formed in the more distal part of the ramp, while the inner part of the ramp was a zone of sediment bypass. During subsequent relative sealevel rise the ramp was flooded and starved of sediment. Early highstands were characterized by carbonate deposition, including the formation of large stromatolite buildups, while siliciclastic deposition was confined to a narrow near-coastal zone. During late highstands decreasing accommodation space resulted in progradation of the siliciclastic deposits, forcing carbonate depos tion basinward."
2758448513	"Les phosphorites se forment dans la prolongation de la ride recifale stromatolitique dage ripheen moyen de vazante, sur un plateau continental ouvert vers lw. S. W. , sur les influences oceaniques. Lassociation spatiale dolomite-apatite-glauconie est primaire et correspond a une zonation paleogeographique avec passage dun milieu littoral a lest a la mer ouverte a louest et au sud-ouest. Levolution secondaire des phosphorites du gisement de rocinha est controlee par les facteurs tectoniques et mateoriques. La tectonique se traduit par un empilement douest en est decailles, qui aboutit a la superposition de plusieurs niveaux mineralises. Cette disposition structurale conduit a une nouvelle evaluation des reserves de ce gisement. Lalteration meteorique, peu marquee en surface, se traduit essentiellement en profondeur par laccumulation secondaire de phosphate de calcium le long des plans de cisaillement et de failles generalement tres redressees dans la partie en aval du gisement. Ces divers mecanismes contribuent a augmenter tres probablement la teneur en p::()o::() des phosphorites. La concentration secondaire absolue en phosphate de chaux saccompagne dune forte augmentation de la teneur en terres rares. Un modele de phosphatogenese voisin de celui qui prevaut pour rendre compte des phosphorites marines mesozoiques et actuelles est propose."
2020042457	"Some modern laminated find calcified stromatolitic structures are partially or completely formed by eukaryotes. Diatom populations in freshwater environments with elevated ionic concentrations contribute to calcite precipitation, and the formation of distinctive mineral-rich stromatolitic laminae. Two types of stromatolite-forming diatom populations were observed. In the first example, in stromatolites growing on a quarry ledge near Laegerdorf, North Germany, calcite crystals with biogenic imprints form around polysaccharide stalks of the diatom Gomphonema olivaceum var. calcarea (Cleve) Cleve-Euler. These individually precipitated crystals eventually become cemented together in layers, forming rigid, laminated stromatolitic deposits which drape over the quarry ledge. In the second example, in stromatolites forming in a shallow stream near Cuatro Cienegas, Coahuila, Mexico, diatomaceous laminae also form by the accumulation of carbonate particles in a matrix of diatoms and their extracellular polysaccharide products. These laminae become thick enough to drape over individual stromatolite heads. The diatoms responsible for these deposits are Amphora aff. A. katii Selva, Nitzschia denticula Grun., and six other species. At Cuatro Cienegas, in addition to the diatomaceous laminae, carbonate-rich cyanobacterial layers, dominated by two cyanobacterial species with different fabrics and porosities, are also present and contribute substantially to the growth of the stromatolites. In both the Laegerdorf and Cuatro Cienegas examples, entire stromatolites or thick laminations on stromatolites are built by a small number of diatom species which produce copious amounts of extracellular stalk, gel, and sheath material, a propertuy they share with cyanobacterial stromatolite builders."
2019798258A1991GQ65000006	"Abstract The valve structure and morphological variation of Parlibellus pandunformis sp. nov. (Bacillariophyta) from a hypersaline lagoon at Shark Bay of the Indian Ocean, west coast of Australia, are described. This diatom has been found living in algal mats associated with stromatolites and sublittoral sediments. The panduriform shape and the structure of the striae and interstriae separate this diatom from the other species of Parlibellus. The ecology of the species and its relationship with other members of this genus are discussed."
2079992245000350000000000	Abstract This study reports the frequent occurrence of ooid-stromatolite association levels at the starting of bioevents at various Silurian stratigraphical boundaries in the Timannorthern Ural region. Five genetic types of ooids show various depositional settings and environments of their formation. The important feature of studied ooids is the fact that calcite crystals of their cortex have the distinct traces of dissolution formed by organic acids of embedded microorganisms. A honeycomb-like pattern of subpolygonal to subspherical pits and walls is interpreted as calcified extracellular polymeric substance (EPS) within stromatolite fabrics and some microscopic ooids (less than mm in size) in the beginning of their microbial cortex formation are locally visible. This is important observation because well-preserved different fabrics seen in ancient ooids and stromatolites have previously been interpreted to represent paleoenvironmental conditions brought about by different scale changes in benthic assemblages. Results from this study suggest that it is possible that the connection of ooids with stromatolites at these time-levels depends on their genetic relationship to abundance microbial habitats in the Silurian shallow water marine basin of the region.
2257833001	"Me_u jurskim i krednim plitkomorskim karbonatnim stijenama Istre posebno znacenje, kako po ucestalosti tako i po važnosti za rekonstrukciju i interpretaciju okolisa i uvjeta taloženja, imaju onkolitni i stromatolitni vapnenci. Gornjojurski i donjokredni sedimenti predstavljeni su autohtonim karbonatnim stijenama taloženim na prostranoj karbonatnoj platformi na relacijama supralitoral-litoral-sublitoral-laguna-stražnji dio grebena (supratidal - intertidal - subtidal - lagoon-back reef). Onkoliti i stromatoliti javljaju se samo u gornjem titonu (portlandu) i donjoj kredi. U gornjoj kredi mjestimicno se nalaze samo tanji slojevi stromatolita u malim, prostorno ogranicenim podrucjima lagunskog facijesa unutar rudistnih coquina vapnenaca. Zbog slabo izražene morfologije karbonatne platforme i njenog blagog nagiba, te relativno visokih amplituda plime i oseke, formirale su se prostrane plimne zaravni (tidal flats), sublitoralni (subtidal) plicaci i lagune, u kojima se uz sudjelovanje modrozelenih algi, zelenih algi, foraminifera, gastropoda i krustaceja (koprolita) odvija opetovana sedimentacija onkolita, LLH-stromatolita, peletnih, intraklasticnih i kalcilutitnih vapnenaca, te ranodijagenetskih supralitoralnih (supratidal) dolomita. Da su ovakve plimne zaravni (tidal flats) i litoralne (intertidal) zone zauzimale velike povrsine, dokazuje kontinuitet stromatolita i onkolita duž cijele zapadnoistarske antiklinale. Iako se, zbog povremene valovitosti i blagog nagiba slojeva na njenim krilima, pojedini horizonti stromatolita i onkolita pojavljuju na velikim prostranstvima, ipak nije bilo moguce ustanoviti kolike su povrsine zauzimale plimne ravnice (tidal flats) i litoralna (intertidal) podrucja, odnosno kakve su sirine i povrsine bile zahvacene izmjenjenom i utjecajem plime i oseke. Jasnija slika dobila bi se sistematskim istražnim i strukturnim busotinama. Uzroke formiranja ovakvih izrazito plitkomorskih sredina na karbonatnoj platformi tijekom mla_ega titona (portlanda), valendis-otriva i barem-apta moramo potražiti, osim u intenzitetu pozitivnih i negativnih tektonskih pokreta, i u utjecaju velike regresije svjetskih mora, koja je, prema R o n i (), i na ovom podrucju svoj maksimum dosegla sredinom valendis-otriva. S druge pak strane, velika transgresija svjetskih mora tokom alba uzrokovala je i u Istri stanovito produbljavanje i prosirivanje bazena, tako da tipicni litoralni (tidal flat, intertidal) i lagunski talozi, tj. onkolitni, stromatolitni i peletni vapnenci, ovdje nedostaju, a dominiraju kalkareniti i intraspariti."
2258079699	"Abstract In the Boothia Arch region Paleozoic sedimentation had begun by Middle Cambrian time with a marine transgression, and continued uninterrupted into Lower Devonian time. The Middle Cambrian to Middle Silurian part of this sedimentary record can be seen in two formations on the flanks of the Boothia Arch. The basal Lang River Formation, newly named, contains various lithotypes, and in the lower part of the formation, sandstone and sandy dolostone. On Prince of Wales Island this formation contains sandstone-dolostone and dolostone-fissile dolostone cyclothems. The overlying Allen Bay Formation contains a variety of dolostone types but detrital material is generally absent. Tidal-flat sedimentation predominated during the deposition of both formations, although various laminated dolostones, stromatolite beds, intra-formational breccias and conglomerates, oolites and a few beds with marine invertebrate fossils are evidence of fluctuations between environments of supratidal to shallow subtidal deposition. The differences within and between the two formations can be related to variations in the supply of terrigenous sediment, to differing local depositional and topographic factors and to changes in basin stability. The rock types and their inferred depositional environments appear to be typical of early Paleozoic sedimentation throughout much of the Arctic Lowlands."
2079455454	"A basal A- evaporite member of the Upper Silurian Salina Group, a marine evaporite sequence, appears to record a time of lowered sea level in the Michigan basin. Indicators of shallow sabkha deposition, such as nodular anhydrite and nonplanar stromatolites, occur in parts of the A- evaporite. This unit also contains scattered nodules of borate, a nonmarine evaporite, and the bittern salt sylvite. The petrologic evidence for lowered sea level is supported by studies showing that Middle Silurian reefal buildups within the Michigan basin were subaerially exposed during or immediately prior to A- evaporite deposition. However, other studies concluded that carbonate platforms in Indiana and Illinois continued to host flourishing Silurian reef communities throughout A- evaporite deposition, under conditions of high global sea levels. The conflicting evidence can be resolved only by postulating that the Michigan basin became isolated from surrounding epeiric seas during A- evaporite deposition. Tidal and peritidal carbonates - the Greenfield, Limberlost, Sugar Run, and Engadine dolomites - were deposited at the edge of the Michigan basin during this time. These units could have served both as sills and as shorelines that separated open epeiric seas from a partly desiccated basin. Evaporating brines, pooled below sea levelmore  in the basin, could have been replenished by seawater and meteoric water flowing through shallow inlets or seeping into the basin through the subsurface. Basin isolation may have been enhanced by minor eustatic fluctuations in sea level and by the constraints on shallow-water circulation in epeiric seas. Therefore, in analogy to the Miocene desiccation of the Mediterranean, the large apparent drop in sea level recorded by the A- evaporite would have been a local rather than a eustatic change. less"
2259615553A1986A292200027	"Three different examples of modern microbial mats and stromatolites have been discovered that exhibit a preferred orientation towards specular sunlight. In Hamelin Pool of Shark Bay, Western Australia, subtidal decimeter-sized discrete columns and intertidal centimeter-sized tufts were found pointing north. In thermal spring effluents and pools of Yellowstone National Park, columnar and conical centimeter-sized microbial structures were found to be inclined to the south. None of these inclined structures show growth orientation in response to prevailing fluid directions. Each example occurs in markedly different environments and each has different photosynthetic microbes: () the subtidal Shark Bay columns are dominated by surficial diatoms: () the intertidal Shark Bay tufts constructed by a filamentous cyanobacterium; and () the cones and columns in Yellowstone are built by filamentous flexibacteria and cyanobacteria. Sunlight must be considered a major driving force in stromatolite morphogenesis. Extrapolation of these modern heliotropic columnar stromatolites to fossil examples supports the paleolatitude hypothesis of Vologdin () and of Nordeng () and the days per year hypothesis of Vanyo and Awramik (). Taken together, and especially when combined with paleomagnetic analyses, the procedures yield an impressive array of data on Earth and Earth-Sun-Moon histories."
2167707244	"The protein universe is currently still expanding [] and so is the realm of cellular signaling proteins. Although in selected cases the genome size and number of genes in a species may substantially decrease as a reflection of a very narrow ecological niche and specialised lifestyle [], overall there is an ever-increasing complexity in cellular signalling networks clearly evident throughout evolution.For example, tyrosine kinases, phosphotyrosine-recognition domains (SH2 s etc.), and also the ancestral forms of large multi-docking proteins with folded N-termini and long intrinsically disordered tails, like the p130Cas, Gab or IRS family proteins [-], which mediate high molecular weight signal transduction and integration complexes, emerged early during metazoan evolution []. Later on, genome duplications occurring during vertebrate evolution [] allowed the emergence of small families of signaling proteins from single ancestor proteins. So compared to Drosophila and C. elegans, which typically have still one prototype protein, Homo sapiens has often three or four close relatives.But why, when and how did signaling pathways and networks emerge in the first place? Clearly, the key to survival for all cells and organisms is to sense and respond appropriately to their natural surroundings. The sensing of the environment and signaling are very intimately linked, so it does not seem unlikely that a prokaryotic chemotaxis system [] represents the first form of a cellular signaling system. The earliest presumed fossil records (stromatolites) seem to indicate that cellular life forms may have evolved over three billion years ago and it is hard to imagine that these early life forms would have been able to thrive for long without an environmental recognition and response system.And when did multicellular organisms, which needed more complex signaling systems, including cell-to-cell communication, actually start to emerge? A new study now suggests a point in time over billion years ago []. Macroscopically visible fossil records of up to a dozen centimetres in size found in equatorial Africa (southeastern Gabon), if interpreted correctly, point to the emergence of multicellularity relatively soon after the onset of the great oxidation event []. These newly reported fossils form flat sheets with scalloped margins and noticeable radiating structures that seem to indicate coordinated growth. They seem to be unlike any known prokaryotic species, begging the question of whether they may actually represent very early eukaryotes.Obviously we will be unable to query any ancient nucleic acids in this matter, but further analyses of these fossils may still eventually yield more insight into the very early days of cell - cell communication."
2019745722A1995TJ83100005	"Upper Jurassic phosphate stromatolites of the Almola Sierra (Southern Spain) encrust macrofossils and hardgrounds, and form oncoids included within pelagic, condensed fossiliferous limestones. Their accretion was determined by bacterially mediated precipitation of phosphate, by the trapping and binding of fine siliciclastics and pelagic biomicrite and by the encrustation of benthonic foraminifera. Phosphorous, trace elements and rare-earth elements were concentrated from degraded organic matter and seawater by stromatolite-building communities, which mediated the formation of phosphate-rich and Fe-Al-Si-rich organic gels under oxic conditions, favouring the precipitation of amorphous mineral precursors (ACP and Fe-Al-Si oxyhydroxides). The observed Ce-enrichment for some stromatolites is explained by oxidative scavenging of Ce4+ from seawater by FeMn oxyhydroxides. The bacterially mediated gels were able to migrate and fill the voids of the stromatolite structure, and later changed to carbonate-fluorapatite, haematite and poorly crystalline Fe-rich clays under postoxic conditions. Phosphatization of trapped carbonate particles also occurred. The phosphate stromatolites formed on a sediment-starved pelagic swell, during periods of no carbonate sedimentation and hardground development. Stromatolite lamination provides evidence for rhythmic alternation between bacterially mediated phosphogenesis, sedimentation and erosion, suggesting episodic changes in the sedimentary environment. Although some of the parameters that controlled phosphate precipitation associated with the stromatolites (local high organic productivity, sediment starvation, moderate depth of deposition and physicochemical conditions) were similar to those found in modern and ancient phosphogenic settings, the palaeogeographical framework and the intensity of sedimentary processes were different to those of the Worlds major phosphorite deposits."
2079859531A1993MD20900009	"Abstract Gloeocapsomorpha prisca alginites from Upper Ordovician Type I kerogen in hydrocarbon source rocks (kukersites), Yeoman Formation, Saskatchewan, Canada, have been studied using incident light microscopy and transmission micro-Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy. Gloeocapsomorpha prisca coccoidal alginite are classified as three maceral varieties: (i) small agglomerations of thin-walled disseminated A, (ii) larger agglomerations of thick-walled disseminated B; and (iii) a stromatolitic variety. Each alginite maceral variety is interpreted as a stage in the life cycle of the algal precursor resulting from progressive normal growth controlled by chemical and physical changes in the paleowater column. Thickened cell walls of disseminated B and stromatolitic G. prisca are characterized by strong i.r. absorbances in the OH region and a higher aromatic CH absorption compared to the early growth stage of the disseminated A alginite at the same level of thermal maturity. This characteristic is attributed to the presence of highly aliphatic and resistant outer cell wall biopolymers formed by the algal precursors in response to a variation in either oxygen supply or fluctuating salinity levels within the paleoenvironment and is outlined in a proposed paleoenvironmental model. The rate of reflectance increase in oil and the degree of fluorescence red shift (lambda max) with increasing depth of burial and thermal maturation is greater for G. prisca disseminated varieties compared to the stromatolitic maceral variety. Aromatic CH absorption ( cm  ) per unit area for disseminated A and B alginite increases at approximately the same rate with increasing thermal maturity. In contrast the aliphatic C absorption bands ( and cm  ) decrease with increasing maturity in G. prisca disseminated A alginite whereas aliphatic absorption per unit area increases in disseminated B alginites with increasing thermal maturation. The aliphatic absorption bands also increase with increasing thermal maturation for stromatolitic G. prisca , but in a pattern unlike disseminated B. A hydrocarbon generation model for G. prisca alginite proposes that the molecular structure of the disseminated B variety undergoes a transformation from an alkyl long chain structure into a more cyclic bitumen-like maceral prior to peak generation. In contrast, the smaller, thin-walled, disseminated A alginite,representing the early growth stage, probably generates free bitumen from diagenesis through to catagenesis. This is supported by a reduction in aliphatics with increasing thermal maturity and by the formation of oily-bitumen that evolves from the alginite during petrographic analysis. The stromatolitic G. prisca alginite remains morphologically very rigid throughout the diagenetic range of thermal maturities."
2019873083A1996VJ67800004	"In the acidic stream (pH ) of the Carnoules Pb-(Zn) mine, Gard, France, very high As contents (from to %) can be accumulated as ferric arsenate and arsenate-sulphate precipitates in rapidly growing bacteria-made structures. The main bacterial forms are rod-shaped and sheathed, their sheath is made of Fe-As-rich material and is coated with ferric arsenate colloidal particles or may be partially included in authigenic crystals. Living forms ofThiobacillus-type bacteria have been recognized in the precipitates. The cyclic development of bacterial colonies alternating with sand deposition and erosive episodes results in the formation of As-rich ferruginous accretions. These laminated and dome-shaped bacterial constructions are similar to those of stromatolites. The extremely high contents of solute As in upstream flow ( mg/) are lowered by  order of magnitude downstream. Lead is also precipitated and concentrated in this FeAs-rich bacterial stromatolite ( ppm Pb). This accumulation and concentration of As and heavy metals via direct or induced microbial action limits pollution downflow. But seasonal storms could erode these FeAsPb-rich deposits and drastically increase pollution.The accumulation of ferric arsenate by bacterial stromatolites suggests that possible microbial remediation strategies may be used in acid mine drainage environments."
2059615306000280000000000	"Abstract The field setting, mineralogical, geochemical, genetic and depositional features of Late Archean metasedimentary manganese, as well as Cenozoic supergene manganese and ferromanganese ores, along the ~ km long linear tract of the AnmodBisgod region in the Western Dharwar Craton, southern India, are described. The Ma metasedimentary manganiferous formation is underlain by stromatolitic limestone/dolomite and quartzite/arenite and also occurs within the former. The older quartzite/arenite, which contains redox-sensitive detrital pyrite and uraninite as well as thucolite, indicates sedimentation under anoxic to oxic transitional palaeoenvironmental condition, whereas the younger stromatolitic limestone/dolomite indicates development of oxygen in the depositional environment. The manganese ore types have been classified into three categories, one of which is a Mn-rich duricrust once capping the Late Archean manganiferous formation. It formed during a Cenozoic lateritic weathering event and was eroded in response to crustal uplift. Perhaps uniquely, clastic deposits of the eroded Mn-duricrust occur in mineable quantities in the form of fluvial palaeochannel fills. These cryptomelane-rich supergene ores are also suitable for radiometric dating. Knowing their age would help to constrain the timing of Mn-duricrust formation and, indirectly, the regional weathering event responsible for the extensive laterite occurrences of southern India."
2076688750	"The Upper Cambrian Whipple Cave Formation and Lower Ordovician lower House Limestone of eastern Nevada contain algal stromatolites, flat-pebble conglomerate, lime grainstone, and other carbonate rocks inferred to represent shoal-water depositional environments. Coeval parts of the Hales Limestone, km to the west, consist of dark-colored lime mudstone and wackestone interbedded with coarse-textured alloch-thonous gravity-flow and slump deposits interpreted to have formed in a deeper water slope environment.The Whipple Cave Formation and some allochthonous gravity-flow deposits of the Hales Limestone contain trilobite genera typical of the North American Faunal Province, whereas in situ deeper water limestones of the Hales contain trilobite taxa that are widespread in northwestern and southern China.An abrupt biofacies change between shelf and deeper water sites may be analogous to major changes with depth shown by Holocene marine isopod crustaceans in low latitudes, where the permanent thermocline is a major barrier to faunal dispersal. Thus, caution should be exercised in using faunal resemblance data for early Paleozoic plate-tectonic reconstructions unless the habitat and marine climatic preferences of the faunas are known."
2076820956	"The Cantabrian mountains of north Spain contain an unmetamorphosed shallow-water succession ranging in age from late Pre-Cambrian to late Carboniferous. The Pre-Cambrian is represented by the predominantly clastic Mora Formation, and is overlain unconformably by the probably early Cambrian Herreria Formation, deposited in a fluviatile environment. Mid-Cambrian deposits are represented by the Lancara Formation which contains algal stromatolites and a thin but distinctive griotte. The overlying Oville Formation is trilobite-rich. In Arenig times the beach sandstones of the Barrios Quartzite were depositedthese contain Cruziana and Rusophycus. Lower Palaeozoic deposition closed with the graptolite-bearing Formigoso Formation.The Upper Palaeozoic successions are richer in carbonates than those of the Lower Palaeozoic. After the ferruginous San Pedro sandstones which span the SilurianDevonian boundary the limestones and shales of the La Vid formation were laid down, followed by the prominent brachiopod and coral-rich limestones of the Santa Lucia Formation. Clastic conditions returned with the Huergas Formation, but reverted to carbonate in the Portilla Formation. Slight movements before the Famennian gave rise to a basal unconformity to the Ermita Formation.The Carboniferous rocks begin with a second griotte, the Alba griotte, followed by a thick development of Caliza de Montana. Westphalian clastics indicate the early phases of the Hercynian orogeny, whose main activity in this region was between the Westphalian and the Stephanian. The rocks of the pre-Stephanian succession were folded and thrust to stand vertical or overturned. Stephanian conglomerates and coals then filled in the valleys.Throughout the Mesozoic and Cainozoic, the mountains acted as a landmass.The region was not refolded during the Alpine orogeny but a reversed fault developed along the southern margin of the mountains and raised the main part of the chain. Very rapid erosion of the chain took place and torrential conglomerates and fluviatile sands spread to the south over the Meseta region."
2076667861000240000000000	"Abstract Five representative key regions from the NESW-trending Mesoproterozoic Kibaride belt of SE Congo are described. Although the present database is still insufficient for a definitive reconstruction of the tectonic setting, available data suggest that the investigated areas experienced a similar geological history. The Kibaran Supergroup comprises four major lithostratigraphic units in SE Congo. The Kiaora Group is the oldest unit. It starts with a basal conglomerate which is overlain by siliciclastic rocks deposited in fluviatile and possibly lacustrine environments. The conglomerate is overlain by abundant metapelites (predominantly black schist) with calc-silicate, volcano-sedimentary rocks and minor metachert deposited in shallow marine environments. These units are cut by Ga granitoids. The overlying Nzilo Group is composed of coarse-grained, siliciclastic metasedimentary rocks including metaconglomerates, quartzites and minor metapelites and metamorphosed ironstones. Frequent herringbone and wavy ripples suggest tidal flat deposition. The maximum depositional age of this group is given by the Ga granitoids on which it rests disconformably and by detrital zircons from a quartzite, which yields a concordant age of  Ma. The above two groups are separated by a disconformity along with the matrix-supported Kataba Conglomerate occurs at the base of the Nzilo Group. Higher in the succession, the Hakansson Group is essentially pelitic with minor quartzites. At the top of the succession, the Lubudi Group is made of (stromatolitic) carbonates, black schists and minor black quartzites and is inferred to record shallow marine deposition. All these metasedimentary rocks were deposited before the emplacement of ca.  Ga tin granites and are older than Ga, which is the age of the climax of Kibaran deformation in the Mitwaba area. Two major deformational events have been recognized in the study areas. The earliest (D ) is characterized by ENE-trending asymmetric folds and thrusts showing N to NNW transport directions. These structures occur in the Kiaora Group and predate the deposition of the Nzilo, Hakansson and Lubudi Groups. The second deformation (D ) marks the climax of the Kibaran orogeny and affects all sedimentary units. It is defined by NW-verging mesoscopic and macroscopic isoclinal folds (F ) and reverse faults parallel to D planar fabrics. M metamorphism is characterized by medium-pressure/medium-temperature (MP/MT) mineral parageneses, with preliminary data indicating peak P-T conditions between  C and  Kb. UPb dating of metamorphic zircon in older orthogneisses in the Mitwaba region tentatively constrains the timing of M metamorphism at  Ma. The Kiaora Group was intruded by widespread arc-related gabbro-diorite and ca. Ga syn-D calcalkaline and strongly peraluminous granitic plutons similar to those documented in the Lachlan and Hercynian belts. Late to post-kinematic granites and related pegmatites and greisens hosting tin-group ore deposits were emplaced at  Ga and exhibit geochemical similarities with SE Asian collisional granites. The Kibaran orogenic system was active between  (accretionary stage) and  Ga (continental collision and post-orogenic exhumation), but the Kiaora Group sedimentary rocks were deposited prior to  Ga, which is the igneous crystallization age for the syn-D Kibaran orthogneisses intruding them. Sedimentological data broadly indicate that the Kiaora Group was deposited in shallow marine environments, during the rift-drift stage of the evolving Kibaran basin while the post-D Nzilo Group was deposited in an intra-arc environment, although more modern data are required before a definite conclusion can be reached. Available structural, sedimentological, geochronological and petrological data support a convergent margin setting for the Kibaride belt and are inconsistent with an intracontinental, rift model."
2059389542000240000000000	"Abstract The structure of stromatoporoidtabulate coral reefs from the Mid- to Upper Silurian of Gotland includes complex microbialite and algal framework fabric. Non-skeletal microbialites show variable fabrics, structures, and morphologies ranging from largely non-laminated, peloidal, irregular masses to well-laminated stromatolite crusts, indicated by convex upwardly oriented overgrowth structures, trichome-like arrangement of peloids and intergrowth with skeletal calcimicrobes and metazoans. Non-skeletal microbialites contribute to framework formation during different stages in the Hogklint reef development as well as in the marginal, or flanking beds of stromatoporoidcoral patch reefs in the Tofta Formation. In addition to non-skeletal microbialites, calcimicrobes (mainly Rothpletzella) and coralline algae (Graticula gotlandica) substantially contribute to framework formation in reefs from the Hogklint and the lower Hamra Formation. Depending on the occurrence pattern and abundance of microbialites, calcimicrobes, and calcareous algae, four framework types can be differentiated based on the environmental setting. Type ()a tabular stromatoporoid and non-skeletal microbialite framework, characteristic for lower and intermediate parts of the Hogklint reefs, developed in slightly deeper, lower energy, fully marine conditions. Type ()a graticulacean-microbial/calcimicrobial framework, typically developed in the upper and top parts of the Hogklint reefs, marking shallow, moderate to highly agitated water. Type ()a stromatoliteCoenites framework, being part of the reef development in the Tofta Formation. Stromatolites formed in sheltered, partly restricted parts of stromatoporoidcoral patch reef complexes. Type ()a stromatoporoidcalcimicrobial framework, forming relatively small reef bodies in the lower Hamra Formation, situated in a highly agitated, very shallow, open marine environment. These examples indicate that microbial crusts, calcimicrobes, and graticulacean algae were more important contributors to framework formation in Silurian metazoan reefs than previously thought."
2076568834000170000000000	"Abstract PbPb isochrons have been obtained for stromatolitic limestones from the late Archaean Belingwe Greenstone Belt of Zimbabwe, providing direct age constraints on the deposition of these shallow water marine sediments. Samples from the Manjeri Formation and stratigraphically higher Cheshire Formation yield age estimates of  Ma (MSWD=) and  Ma (MSWD=), respectively. These data are in agreement with published UPb zircon and PbPb whole rock ages of associated volcanics, and we, therefore, interpret our PbPb ages as representing the timing of early diagenesis, thus providing a minimum age for carbonate precipitation. A  Ma age (MSWD=) for one sample from the Cheshire Formation is considered to reflect either late-stage diagenesis, a craton wide thermal/chemical disturbance or tectonic activity along the crustal-scale Mtshingwe fault. Calculated model μ1-values for Manjeri and Cheshire limestones are  and , similar to values for approximately and Ga Archaean basement units adjacent to the Belingwe Belt. Negative eNd (Tdeposition) and fSm/Nd suggest derivation of the REE from old, LREE enriched continental crust. Two-stage Nd model ages for the carbonates indicate that precursor rocks were extracted from the mantle at around Ga (Cheshire Formation) and Ga (Manjeri Formation), in good agreement with mantle-extraction ages for local basement units (model TDM:  Ga)."
2420682614A1991GC29100004	"The earliest fossil stromatolites present evidence of a complex ecosystem of photosynthetic organisms. Because the origin of present life can be dated within a few hundred million years prior to these fossils, their complexity poses a problem. A heuristic model outlines the first radiation leading to the universal ancestor."
2354193968	"Based on the study of stromatolites, new isotopic datings and discoveries of other fossil groups, this paper deals with the following three problems about Mesoproterozoic and Neoproterozoic stratigraphy: () The Sinian System (Nantuo, Doushantuo and Tongying Formations) in S. China should be, according to the evelutionary process of the abundant and diverse stromatolites and other data, underlatin by the Jinxian Group in Jiao Liao Xu Huai region; () An high temperature and oxygenic event in association with evaporation happened before the Nantuo glacial, roughly in the middle late stage of Liaonan period, and spread over Jiao Liao Xu Huai region; () The tectonic background of Mesoproterozoic and Neoproterozoic sedimentation of Yanshan, Jiao Liao Xu Huai and Yangtze regions was analysed and presumed."
2944549355000460000000000	"AbstractEuglena-, diatom-, and algae-dominated biofilms are the principal producers of iron-rich biolaminates that result in biosedimentary structures, or stromatolites, in an acid mine drainage (AMD) environment in Indiana. These structures are considered trace fossils because they are produced by organism-sediment interactions and record physicochemical conditions of the environment. Our purpose was to link the biofilm types to specific micro- and micromorphological features and the physicochemical conditions under which they were formed. Analyses revealed that Euglena-dominated biofilm produced thin, porous microlaminae by trapping, binding, and relocating AMD precipitates as the biofilm kept pace with chemical sedimentation. More massive microlaminae were produced by high rates of chemical sedimentation brought on by increased discharge and dilution of acidity. Diatom- and algae-dominated biofilms produced thick, mmcm-scale, porous, spongelike micro- to macrolaminae through oxygenic photosynthesis an..."
2059196424	"Abstract A single specimen of silicified flat algal stromatolite from the late Precambrian Bitter Springs Formation, Australia, contains three distinct microbial communities: () an entophysalidacean mat-building community comparable to both modern members of the genus Entophysalis and Ma old algae from the Belcher Islands, Canada; () a filamentous assemblage composed entirely of the Phormidium or Lyngbya-like cyanophyte Eomycetopsis; and () a non-stromatolitic assemblage of chroococcoid unicells that may have been associated with small, quickly evaporating ponds or puddles of water. Within each community, fossil preservation varies as a function of preservational microenvironments. Recognition of degradation sequences permits an assessment of taphonomic alterations of the original biological patterns. This, in turn, allows reconstruction of community associations and diversity patterns. The paleoenvironment of this particular Bitter Springs stromatolite is considered to be the lower part of the intertidal zone bordering a shallow, perhaps somewhat restricted sea. Post-mortem degradation has acted to increase apparent diversity through the creation of diagenetic variations in morphology and to decrease the same measure by the selective destruction of less resistant taxa. Three new species are described: Eoentophysalis cumulus, Eosynnechococcus amadeus, and Gloeodiniopsis gregaria."
2059007626	"Microbialites from Penglaiba section, a well-exposed stratigraphic section in the northwestern area of the Tarim Basin are widely distributed throughout the Lower Qiulitage Formation of the Upper Cambrian. Stromatolites and thrombolites are recognized as the two major components. Thrombolites have two kinds of fabrics under the microscopy based on varying arrangements macroscopically, which are microbial reefs and clotted laminations. The microbial reefs are kind of round and irregular buildups with branched shapes and interconnection as frame, which played the major roles in protecting the other microbial structures against the tides and waves. Based on petrology, stratigraphy and micro-facies combination, depositional environments are indicated for varying water depths and energy. In addition, a model of peleaoenvironments is established in the Lower Qiulitage Formation. Both of thrombolites and stromatolites are associated in the subtidal zone, but in this sedimentary model, thrombolites deposited in the deeper water, in which this facies association is similar to what has happened in Bahamas."
2059072330	"Abstract An uncommon interbedding: Dasycladacean algaestromatolites appears to be represented in dolomitic materials, Norian in age, of the Trevenque nappe (Alpujarride Complex, Betic Belts). Dasycladacean facies consist of massive (several metres thick) flattened masses, parallel to bedding, the lateral extent of which is commonly in excess of m. A close view reveals Dasycladacean alga stems to be oriented perpendicular to bedding and interconnected with organic encrustations and cements of presumed marine origin. Stromatolite facies also have a stratiform disposition and their dimensions are of the same range as that of dasyclads. Their morphology is of the LLH (Lateral Linked Hemispheroids) variety of Logan et al. (). They appear to have been lithified early in a shallow marine environment. Stromatolite breccias are locally abundant. The contact between these two major types of facies is usually sharp, clear and plane. They seem to grade towards E-SE to calcarenite bar deposits, which probably caused restriction on the environment in which dasyclads and stromatolites developed. The dasyclads inhabited a shallow, protected and restricted lagoon, building biostromes on top of which stromatolites implanted themselves. Periodic subsidence of the bottom caused new cycles (Dasycladaceanstromatolites) to appear. Nine of these cycles can be recognized."
2059665735000320000000000	"Abstract Ice sheet meltback in the aftermath of the Sturtian (mid Cryogenian) glaciation was accompanied or followed by deposition of thick carbonate successions. In northern Namibia, the Rasthof Formation is a  m thick cap carbonate sequence divided into () a basal cap dolostone, () a microbial member and () an epiclastic member. This subdivision applies for > km along strike at the southern and western edges of the Owambo Basin. In this paper we focus essentially on macrofacies of the cap dolostone and the microbial member. Cap dolostones are commonly interpreted as subtidal to deep water deposits, with delicate mm thick laminae. We describe well-preserved, ungraded hummocky cross-stratification in the cap dolostone, expected to occur no deeper than the offshore transition zone. The overlying microbial member contains thickly laminated microbialites with folded and contorted intervals interpreted as soft-sediment deformation structures. The thickly laminated microbialites are followed by more thinly laminated microbialites, with ""roll-up"" structures and more unusual individual, vertical stromatolite morphologies. We interpret the vertical growths in the microbial member as a direct response to the changing environment. The new observations and interpretations presented in this paper contrast with previous work on the Rasthof Formation. We recognise a relatively shallower setting associated with a trend in the geometries of the microbial member."
2059705560000170000000000	"Microbial precipitation of calcium carbonate has played a vital role in the development of carbonate platforms since their initiation in the Proterozoic. We report here the varied roles that microbial carbonates played in Late Devonian carbonate platforms in the Alberta basin, Canada. We recognize microbial carbonates as important contributors within the carbonate system during times of major environmental change including transgressive events in platform environments and the recovery interval following the Frasnian^Famennian mass extinction. Detailed sequence stratigraphic analysis of two isolated platforms in the Canadian Rockies was used to document their evolution from a regional ramp to isolated platforms with phases of progradation, aggradation and backstepping, and renewed progradation related to rates of second-order and third-order sea-level change and basin infill. The carbonate system was reorganized following annihilation of many carbonate-producing biota during the Frasnian^Famennian mass extinction. Microbial carbonates figure prominently in both Frasnian platform development and the Famennian recovery of the carbonate system following the Frasnian^Famennian mass extinction. During transgressive platform phases deeper-water facies with a crinoid, rugose coral, and microbe dominated biota abruptly overlie prograding stromatoporoid framestones. Microbial carbonates consist of abundant Girvinellid oncoids that nucleated around other fossil clasts. The temporary replacement of stromatoporoid communities during transgression implies a shift from oligotrophic to mesotrophic conditions and the microbes likely capitalized on the change in nutrient supply. Microbes played a significant role in highstand reef margin facies where Renalcis was a binder and cementer in stromatoporoid framestones and downslope rugose coral/stromatoporoid mounds. Microbially laminated carbonates also form stromatolitic mats in peritidal shallowing-upward cycles and repetitive stromatolitic intervals commonly indicate sea-level lowstands associated with the development of sequence boundaries. Stromatoporoid reefs and their associated reef interior facies indicate an oligotrophic ecosystem where microbial carbonates were relegated mainly to cryptic or stressed marine habitats. An end-Frasnian sea-level lowstand exposed the isolated carbonate platforms. Transgression and mass extinction characterize the Frasnian^Famennian boundary event and microbial carbonates occur at this horizon in western Canada. Stromatolites, oncoids, and large-scale microbial thrombolites appear to be"
2076949215000250000000000	"Following the collapse of the Early Cambrian archaeocyathancalcimicrobial reef consortium, the MiddleLate Cambrian  Furongian was an interval dominated by purely microbial dendrolite and stromatolite reefs. However, among these latter, a few exceptional occurrences of metazoan reefs are known. One such reef complex occurs in the late Middle  early Late Cambrian  Furongian portion of the Mila Formation of northern Iran. In the otherwise low-energy interval of this formation, the anthaspidellid demosponge Rankenella hamdii sp. nov. is associated with encrusting Girvanella, eocrinoid plates, rhynchonelliformean brachiopod valves and subordinate hyoliths and trilobites in tempestite shell beds; these beds underwent synsedimentary cementation on the seafloor to form hardgrounds. In the succeeding, higher energy interval, a complex of metre-scale bioherms and (or) taphoherms incorporates toppled or transported Rankenella hamdii in association with brachiopods, echinoderm plates, trilobites and some red arg..."
2077106384000170000000000	"Lenticular stromatolite-barite-sulfide mounds, interpreted as sedimentary exhalative deposits, are exposed at several localities in Devonian reef complexes of the Canning basin, Western Australia. These mounds, hundreds of meters long and tens of meters thick, occur along contacts between basinal shales (Gogo Formation) and marginal-slope limestones (Sadler Limestone) and adjacent to synsedimentary faults cutting the Gogo Formation. The mounds are limestone buildups, composed of stromatolites intergrown with barite and cut by iron sulfide veins. The iron sulfides (marcasite and pyrite) are weathered to gossans at the surface. They fill fissures that probably formed as a result of contemporary seismic activity and the early compaction of underlying and adjoining shales. The stromatolite-barite-sulfide deposits also occur as allochthonous clasts in penecontemporaneous debris-flow deposits. Postdepositional compaction of basinal shales in the Gogo Formation commonly amounted to about percent. This resulted in the expulsion of large volumes of fluids along permeable interbeds, shale-limestone contacts, and synsedimentary faults, reaching the sea floor as cool-fluid seepages. The expelled fluids carried dissolved carbonate, barium, iron, and reduced sulfur. They probably nourished chemosynthetic bacteria that mediated the deposition of stromatolites, barite, and iron sulfides, resulting in growth of the stromatolite-barite-sulfide buildups. There is no known economic mineralization in the exhalative buildups, but some drill holes encountered minor uneconomic veins of epigenetic Zn-Pb mineralization, filling narrow fissures that postdate the exhalative deposits. Economic epigenetic Zn-Pb deposits that have been mined elsewhere in the same general area of the Canning basin were formed during the early Carboniferous or latest Devonian, many millions of years after the exhalative deposits. Both exhalative and epigenetic phases of mineralization are thought to have been sourced through the compaction-driven dewatering of shales. The exhalative deposits are interpreted to have formed over seepages of cool fluids having salinities close to that of seawater, whereas the epigenetic deposits formed from much hotter fluids, probably brines, expelled during subsequent shale compaction."
2353823797	"In year,Qingbaikou System is established in Jixian County,Hebei Province,Northern China by professor Gao Zhen-xi et al.It is divided into the Xiamaling Formation of the lower part of Qingbaikou System and the Jingeryu Formation of the upper part of Qingbaikou System.In recent years,a zircon U-Pb SHRIMP age was obtained from the ash bed in the Xiamaling Formation in Northern China Plate,yielding a weighted mean 206Pb/238U age of  Ma.Another zircon U-Pb age gained from the same formation in Zhaojiashan,Hebei Province,yielding similar age(weighted mean 206Pb/238U)  Ma.These ages do not support the tradition idea that the Xiamaling Formation belongs to Neoproterozoic.According to the facts mentioned above,the author suggested that tie Qingbaikou System is divided into the lower Xiamaling Formation of Mesoproterozoic and the upper Jingeryu Formation of Neoproterozoic.Therefore,the Qingbaikou System is disintegrated.According to the stromatolites with Linella-Gymnosolen-Katavia-Cuijiatunia-Ximincunella assemblage and using reported new U-Pb age(SHRIPM),the Jinxian Group may be correlated with Xiamaling Formation,yielding a weighted mean 206Pb/U238 of ~ Ma in Yanshan Mountain area.So Jinxian Group is possible promoted as a stratigraphical unit of the system level.It is named as Jinzhou System by the author,belonging to Late Mesoproterozoic in age( ~ Ma or ~ Ma).The establish of Jinzhou System is important significance in subdivision and correlation in mesoproterozoic strata."
2841446990000440000000000	"In many basins, Upper Cambrian carbonate successions display intervals with a positive carbon isotope excursion (CIE) of up to . In North America, this marks the boundary between the Sauk IIIII super-sequences. A Steptoean positive carbon isotope excursion (SPICE) locality previously identified in the Port au Port peninsula, western Newfoundland, has been revisited and an additional potential SPICE locality found. In both locations, a CIE is found to be associated with a prominent bioherm and sandstone layer within a sequence of carbonate rocks. At March Point columnar stromatolites occur, whereas at Felix Cove thrombolites can be seen. In the latter, the sandstone immediately overlies the thrombolites coincident with the CIE, whereas at March Point a dolomitized grainstone occurs above the stromatolites. The sandstone at this locality post-dates the CIE. Although lower than the SPICE in some localities, a positive CIE is present in both sections: March Point () and Felix Cove (). Additional..."
2944654090000470000000000	"Sedimentological, δ13C and δ18O data from stromatolites in a lower and middle Miocene sequence from the Ebro Basin (N Spain) are used to assess the potential of ancient lacustrine stromatolite lamination as an archive of palaeoenvironmental and palaeoclimatic change. The isotopic evolution through the studied sequence supports a general trend toward less saline conditions with time. Stromatolites and muddy-grainy laminated limestones developed in lake water that underwent little renewal, compared with other carbonate facies. The palaeoclimatic value of the stable-isotope changes and concurrent textural variations in calcite stromatolite lamination is studied at different orders of cyclicity. Stromatolite lamination consists of simple laminae (dark dense, light dense and light porous) grouped into alternating composite light and dark laminae. δ13C and δ18O analyses in consecutive composite laminae (bulk sampling) yielded a cyclic pattern that mimics textural variations. Light laminae, with lower δ13C and δ18O values, reflect higher precipitation/evaporation ratio (P/E) and more influence of biogenic 12C. Dark laminae, with higher δ13C and δ18O values, reflect drier conditions, more complete atmospheric CO2 exchange with water and photosynthetic 12CO2 uptake. Textural features of laminae support these results: the dark laminae are related to higher calcite saturation in lake water during drier periods. Isotopic values from high-resolution sampling through a -cm thick stromatolite reveal palaeoclimate variations at different temporal scales. Isotopic variation in 3rd order cyclicity of alternating light/dark simple laminae is recording seasonal P/E variations. Light and dark composite laminae (2nd order cyclicity) correspond to pluriannual dominantly-humid or -dry conditions, respectively. A gradual succession from light to dark composite laminae forms the 1st order cycles driven by decreasing P/E through longer pluriannual periods, resulting in lake level lowering. The stromatolites are thus recording lake level changes of centennial to millennial scale."
2117843581A1993MC14900007	"The Tamana Formation of the Central Range of Trinidad was studied in order to determine its importance in the stratigraphical and structural development of north-eastern South America. Biostratigraphical, petrological and mineralogical data, combined with field mapping show that the Tamana sediments are composed of five distinct lithofacies: inner to outer shelf, burrowed shaley mudstone; outer shelf, Fe-rich sandy limestone; submarine channel, conglomeratic mudstone; middle shelf to nearshore, algal-foram packstone/grainstone; and intertidal to nearshore, algal-stromatolite-coral boundstone with coral bioherms. Maximum thickness of the Tamana Formation is m.Deposition of the Tamana limestones occurred between the Praeorbulina glomerosa (latest early Miocene) and Globorotalia fohsi robusta (middle part of the middle Miocene) planktonic foraminiferal zones, and in a more continuous trend than is seen in the current outcrop belt. Detailed biostratigraphy shows that the Tamana Formation is a facies equivalent of the shallow- and deep-water shales of the Brasso Formation, and the deep water turbidites of the Herrera Member of the Cipero Formation.The early diagenetic history of the Tamana limestones was dominated by the precipitation of authigenic glauconitic smectite, and the dissolution of skeletal grains and carbonate matrix. Late burial diagenesis was dominated by the precipitation of illite and illite/smectite. Comparative mineralogy and textural analyses indicate a minimum range of burial depth for the Tamana Formation at 1500m, with a maximum of m. Alteration of Fe-bearing minerals to geothite and late fracturing occurred during post-Pliocene tectonic uplift and unroofing of the Central Range.The Tamana Formation sediments can be used as a structural and stratigraphical event marker within the Late Tertiary geological history of Trinidad. These units record a phase of the tectonic interaction between the Caribbean and South American plates in the south-eastern Caribbean, and reflect the onset of contractile deformation in the Central Range."
2117043142	"Molar-tooth structures are intricately crumpled, microsparry calcite fissure fills that formed during the Precambrian. Strontium isotope stratigraphy constrains the last occurrence of volumetrically significant molar-tooth structure (MT) in the geological record to  Ma. Although the disappearance of MT is commonly ascribed to the influence of metazoans on sediment cohesion, this now seems less plausible because there is no evidence for significant sediment disruption by metazoans before  Ma. It is proposed here that the most likely alternative explanation for MT disappearance is a change in ocean chemistry. A decrease in CaCO3 saturation and/or an increase in the concentration of precipitation inhibitors in mid-Neoproterozoic seawater may have contributed to MT disappearance, and might also help to explain the approximately contemporaneous decline in stromatolite diversity."
2117873543A1997YA86100004	"Detailed sedimentological and stratigraphical analysis coupled with conodont biostratigraphy of a fore-reef slope succession in the Napier Range (Napier Formation) is used to develop a depositional model and relative sea-level history for late Frasnian to late Famennian reef evolution in the Canning Basin of north-western Australia. Changes in sedimentary style on the slope, reflecting differing rates of carbonate production on the platform, are linked to third- and higher order relative sea-level fluctuations.Overlapping slope aprons accumulated along the base of a steep-walled platform margin. Coarse carbonate debris was deposited adjacent to the margin as talus breccias (via rockfall) and debris-flow breccias. Depositional slopes up to , and locally steeper, are demonstrated using rotated geopetal cavity fills. The predominance of channel-filling lithofacies throughout the slope succession indicates the highly channelized nature of the aprons. The middle slope is dominated by sandy oolitic-peloidal turbiditic grainstones interpreted as sediment exported from an active platform. The turbidites and associated debris-flow breccias contrast with condensed carbonate intervals and deep-water, non-fenestral stromatolites that record times of very low platform production. Lower slope turbidites and associated intraclastic breccias indicate widespread redeposition of sediment eroded from lithified and semi-lithified limestones higher up the slope.Several third-order sequences are recognized in the fore-reef succession and these are composed primarily of transgressive and highstand deposits. Carbonate production was severely restricted in the early Famennian coinciding with development of onlapping siliciclastic aprons during a relative sea-level lowstand. Evidence for a subaerial exposure event is also preserved within the siliciclastic strata. Controls on sequence development are difficult to constrain. Although two sequence boundaries can be correlated with falls on the global sea-level curve, the reef complexes evolved in an active extensional regime and it is highly likely that tectonism, in conjunction with eustasy, controlled accommodation on the platform and therefore carbonate productivity."
2117830956	"The manganese ores of Groote Eylandt in the Gulf of Carpentaria, Australia, occur in a series of sandy claystones of Lower Cretaceous (Albian) age which overlie unconformably the middle Proterozoic sandstone basement. The ore minerals, chiefly pyrolusite and cryptomelane together with minor manganite, romanechite, braunite, lithiophorite, nsutite, todorokite, birnessite, and chalcophanite, occur as an almost continuous stratum of uncemented pisolites; cemented pisolites; dense textureless bands, pebbles, and boulders; and concretionary masses. The ores contain fossil evidence of microbiological activity, including algal stromatolites, oncolites, coccoid microfossils, and other microfossils enclosed in metacolloidal manganese oxides. Mineralogical investigations show that there was a close association between microbial activity and manganese oxide precipitation. The various theories relating to the origin of the Groote Eylandt manganese ores are discussed and a petrogenetic sequence involving biogeochemical precipitation of manganese oxide gels, sedimentary formation of pisolites and concretionary strata, diagenesis, and lateritization is outlined."
2118025711000240000000000	"Hamelin Pool in Western Australia is one of the two major sites in the world with active marine stromatolite formation. Surrounded by living smooth and pustular mats, these ancient laminated structures are associated with cyanobacterial communities. Recent studies have identified a wide diversity of bacteria and archaea in this habitat. By understanding and evaluating the microbial diversity of this environment we can obtain insights into the formation of early life on Earth, as stromatolites have been dated in the geological record as far back as billion years. Automated ribosomal intergenic spacer analysis (ARISA) patterns were shown to be a useful method to genetically discriminate halophilic archaea within this environment. Patterns of known halophilic archaea are consistent, by replicate analysis, and the halophilic strains isolated from stromatolites have novel intergenic spacer profiles. ARISA-PCR, performed directly on extracted DNA from different sample sites, provided significant insights into the extent of previous unknown diversity of halophilic archaea within this environment. Cloning and sequence analysis of the spacer regions obtained from stromatolites confirmed the novel and broad diversity of halophilic archaea in this environment."
2117012298000300000000000	"Acid mine drainage (AMD) from the Iberian Pyrite Belt has high acidity and metal concentrations. Earlier pilot experiments, based on limestone sand dispersed in wood shavings (dispersed alkaline substrate; DAS) have been shown to be an efficient treatment option. However, complete metal removal was not achieved, principally due to the high ferrous iron concentration in the inflow AMD. In order to oxidize and remove iron, a natural Fe-oxidizing lagoon (NFOL) was added prior to treatment with limestone-DAS. The NFOL comprises several pre-existing Fe-stromatolite terraces and cascades, and a lagoon with a volume of m() built near the mine shaft. Downstream of the NFOL, the limestone-DAS treatment consists of two reactive tanks of m() each filled with limestone-DAS reactive substrate, connected in series with two decantation ponds of m() each and several oxidation cascades. The AMD emerging from the mine shaft displayed a pH near , a net acidity of mg/L as CaCO() equivalents, and mean concentrations of mg/L Zn; mg/L Fe (% Fe(II)); mg/L SO(); mg/L Ca; mg/L Al; mg/L Mn; mg/L Cu; and - mg/L As, Pb, Cr, Cd, Co, and Ni. The oxidation induced in the NFOL enhanced ferric iron concentration, showing an average of % oxidation and % retention during the monitoring period. The whole system removed a mean of mg/L net acidity as CaCO() equivalents (% of inflow); corresponding to % of Fe, Al, Cu, Pb and As, and % of Zn."
2117174928000280000000000	"RESUME Facies et paleoecologie du membre superieur de la Formation d'Aisemont (Frasnien superieur, S. Belgique): un episode inhabituel dans la crise du Frasnien superieur. Le membre superieur de la Formation d'Aisemont  aussi appele ""second biostrome"" - correspond au dernier niveau carbonate significatif du Frasnien superieur au bord nord du Synclinorium de Dinant et dans le Synclinorium de Namur, en Belgique. Il est constitue de calcaire bioclastique a oncoides et coraux, souvent dolomitise et n'est donc pas a proprement parler un biostrome puisque seul un niveau tres peu epais est construit par des coraux. L'essentiel du membre est forme de calcaire relativement riche en oncoides et organismes dont la plupart sont des opportunistes (bryozoaires, brachiopodes, gasteropodes, spongiaires, etc.). Les coraux identifies appartiennent aux genres Phillipsastrea et Frechastraea, qui dominent aux cotes du tabule Alveolites. L'observation d'objets multi-encroutes, ainsi que des colonies effilochees de coraux, laisse penser que le milieu de depot etait un environnement difficile pour les principaux organismes constructeurs: fond meuble, eaux turbides, sedimentation fine intermittente. Le developpement d'un niveau construit par les coraux est donc un evenement important, qui correspond a la colonisation dun fond durci. Ce dernier marque la base d'un cortege regressif et confirme le modele de la  sequence d'Aisemont  (cycle transgression-regression de troisieme ordre). Enfin, la proliferation de structures microbiennes tant dans le membre, sous forme d'oncoides, que dans son equivalent lateral, sous forme de thrombolithes et stromatolithes, dans le Membre de Petit-Mont (Formation des Valisettes dans l'Anticlinorium de Philippeville) est interpretee comme le resultat des deteriorations environnementales menant aux crises du Frasnien superieur."
109862363000071000000000	"Field observations and petrographic analysis allow a sequence-stratigraphic interpretation of the intensely karstified Albian Mfamosing Limestone Formation in the Calabar Flank of the south-eastern Niger Delta. Main criteria for this interpretation are the presence of siliciclastic intercalations, of prominent hardgrounds, of characteristic microfacies including stromatolites and of phreatic and vadose diagenetic patterns. These criteria enable the recognition, from bottom to top in the type section of the Mfamosing Limestone, of a late phase in the formation of a highstand systems tract and of a flooding surface followed by a lowstand systems tract in which erosional features have been developed locally. The succession is topped by a transgressive systems tract. Some of these units and key sequence-stratigraphic boundaries have been traced into other outcrops in the area. In their identification within the heavily karstified outcrops, petrography overprints and vertical sequence patterns play a significant role. A sedimentation model explains the areal differences in development. Siliciclastic shedding influenced the carbonate system. Time-equivalent carbonate bodies occur on either side of the opening South Atlantic Ocean."
2117351871000220000000000	"Abstract Petrographic analyses of dispersed organic matter (including macerals and palynomorphs), siliceous and calcareous microfossil assemblages and microtextures (e.g. stromatolitic) have been used to define and interpret five organic facies and regionally map their distribution for the following informal groupings of potential hydrocarbon source rocks in the Western Canada Sedimentary Basin: Upper Devonian Woodbend group, Upper Devonian Winterburn group and Upper Devonian to Lower Mississippian black shales of the Exshaw and Bakken formations. Five petrographic organic facies (A-E) are defined for the potential source rocks based on assemblages of alginites, acritarchs, sporinites, siliceous microfossils and algal mat microtextures. Organic facies A, B (prasinophyte alginites and acritarchs) and C (coccoidal alginite), represent accumulation in relatively deep (basin), intermediate (shelf-platform), and shallow water depths (bank-reef margin to lagoonal). Organic facies D is defined by siliceous microfossils (e.g. Radiolaria) and accumulated in deep basinal to outer shelf settings immediately east of an ancient Pacific Ocean, or south of an ancient Arctic Ocean. This facies may reflect regions of upwelling which extended into intracratonic and epicontinental settings. Organic facies E, characterized by stromatolitic microtextures with or without coccoidal alginite, only occur within Upper Devonian Winterburn Group shallow water, restricted shelf to lagoonal dolostones associated with evaporites. As a whole, the regional distribution of organic facies is related to paleogeography, paleobathymetry or paleostructure in the source rocks. Surprisingly, petrographic organic facies do not show strong positive correlation with kerogen type as defined by Hydrogen-Oxygen indices or TOC-S2 plots."
2117395595	"Abstract. In many modern to sub-fossil deposits tufa formations, very well crystallised deposits called stromatolites are preserved. These are often strongly laminated deposits, the laminae linked to seasonal climatic and environmental variations. Where found in fossil tufas such deposits have huge potential as high resolution archives of Pleistocene climate. One of the first investigations of this type has been performed on a cm-radius stromatolite from the Eemian sequence of Caours (Somme Basin, Northern France), where precise observations in thin section have been combined with intra-lamina δ18O and δ13C analyses. Independent interpretations of petrographical and geochemical data are strongly coherent and demonstrate a clear seasonal signal. Moreover, as δ18O is temperature dependent, we have quantified likely maximum water temperature variations between summer and winter at Caours. A small mismatch between the δ18O derived temperature values and the typical modern range is observed, which may reflect a real difference between modern and Eemian temperature seasonality. This study supports previous investigations performed on a laminated tufa from central Greece and clearly confirms the potential of tufa stromatolites as records of seasonal climatic information and for the quantification of riverine water temperature variations."
2256706744	"Stromatolites are important types of geological structures, found primarily in the Precambrian Era, but present to lesser extent throughout the rest of earth history up until the present. Stromatolites are important geologically because they provide a useful fossil record of the Precambrian, and because many mineralized deposits are found within or associated with them. A number of definitions of ""stromatolite"" have been used, but a recent definition (Walter, ) attributable originally to Stanley Awramik and Lynn Margulis (Stromatolite Newsletter, February , p. ) follows: ""Stromatolites are megascopic organosedimentary structures produced by sediment trapping, binding, and/or precipitation as a result of growth and metabolic activity of organisms, primarily blue-green algae."""
2076994620000230000000000	"Abstract A post-extinction calcimicrobial cap rock occurs above the giant Permian skeletal carbonate platform exposed in the western Taurus Mountains (southern Turkey). It was formed during the main step of a very rapid and large-scale platform flooding (Earliest Triassic) and has been found also in other Tethyan localities. This calcimicrobial cap rock, to m thick, consists of thrombolitic and stromatolitic build-ups at the base and most oolitic grainstone in the upper part. It was terminated by a sudden input of fine terrigenous sediments. The domal, columnar and conical stromatolites are 'anachronistic' deposits as are the abundant botryoidal and fanning aragonite crystal pseudomorphs. This again shows the uniqueness of the Earliest Triassic period and indicates a delayed biotic recovery. To cite this article: A. Baud et al., C. R. Palevol ()."
2352997707	"Based on the huge energy prospects,palaeo-environmental significance and calcification mechanism,the current study researched on the sedimentary characteristics of microbialites of layers,and contrastively analyzed the related characteristics and evolution law of microbialites in the first,second and third member of mantou formation,in combining the associated sedimentary structure and lithofacies change.The results show that the layer and abundance of microbialites decrease from the first member to the third member,and stromatolites and texture stones are obviously superior in the first member but uniform stones are the principal components in the third member.The supply of terrigenous sediment(muddy) is the direct factor that leads to the morphology and sedimentary characteristics change of microbialites,while the change of sea level,namely water power,is the decisive factor that triggers the change of morphological characteristics of microbialites.Additionally,emergence of many metazoan stimulates the extinction of microbialites.The study results in the following conclusiongs: the microbialites of the north china type in mantou formation Cambrian are rich in Henan province,precisely layers of stromatolites,13 layers of texture stones,2 layers of oncolites and layers of uniform stones;The sedimentary characteristics of microbialites result from the internal factors(microbe) and external factors(environmental conditions)."
2059063363A1990CV85700003	"Abstract The abundance of in situ calcified stromatolites in the Precambrian paleontological record and their absence from modern seas is still an enigma. We report on the discovery of the first recent, in situ calcified stromatolites growing in a sea-linked environment. The stromatolites are produced by coccoid cyanobacteria and started to grow yr. ago in the Crater Lake of Satonda Island, Indonesia. Compared to seawater, the lake has gained alkalinity and lost Ca. Its pH () as well as its saturation with respect to calcite is significantly higher than in seawater. The additional alkalinity is provided by biogenic CO2 and subsequent weathering of volcanic silicates. Satonda Crater Lake may provide an analogue to the stromatolite-sustaining Precambrian marine environments which, therefore, may have been more alkaline than present-day seawater. This conclusion is congruent with the recently advanced hypothesis of an early ""soda ocean""."
2259469939000370000000000	"Abstract The South African coastline is just over km in length yet it covers three major biogeographic regions, namely subtropical, warm temperate and cool temperate. In this review we examine published information to assess the possible role of climate change in driving distributional changes of a wide variety of organisms around the subcontinent. In particular we focus on harmful algal blooms, seaweeds, eelgrass, mangroves, salt marsh plants, foraminiferans, stromatolites, corals, squid, zooplankton, zoobenthos, fish, birds, crocodiles and hippopotamus, but also refer to biota such as pathogens, coralline algae, jellyfish and otters. The role of pioneers or propagules as indicators of an incipient range expansion are discussed, with mangroves, zoobenthos, fishes and birds providing the best examples of actual and imminent distributional changes. The contraction of the warm temperate biogeographic region, arising from the intrusion of cool upwelled waters along the Western Cape shores, and increasingly warm Agulhas Current waters penetrating along the eastern parts of the subcontinent, are highlighted. The above features provide an ideal setting for the monitoring of biotic drivers and responses to global climate change over different spatial and temporal scales, and have direct relevance to similar studies being conducted elsewhere in the world. We conclude that, although this review focuses mainly on the impact of global climate change on South African coastal biodiversity, other anthropogenic drivers of change such as introduced alien invasive species may act synergistically with climate change, thereby compounding both short and long-term changes in the distribution and abundance of indigenous species."
2077101126000310000000000	"Microbial deposits at Shark Bay constitute a diverse living microbial carbonate system, developed in a semi-arid, highly evaporative marine setting. Three tidal flats located in different embayments within the World Heritage area were investigated in order to compare microbial deposits and their Holocene evolution. The stressing conditions in the intertidalsubtidal environment have produced a microbial ecosystem that is trapping, binding and biologically inducing CaCO3 precipitation, producing laminated stromatolites (tufted, smooth and colloform), non-laminated thrombolitic forms (pustular) and cryptomicrobial non-laminated forms (microbial pavement). A general shallowing-upwards sedimentary cycle was recognized and correlated with Holocene sea-level variations, where microbial deposits constitute the younger ( years bp) and shallower sedimentary veneer. In addition, sediments have been documented with evidence of exposure during the Holocene, from to 14C years bp, when sea-level was apparently lower than present. Filamentous bacteria constitute the dominant group in the blister, tufted and smooth mat types, and coccus bacteria dominate the pustular, colloform and microbial pavement deposit types. In the subtidal environment within colloform and pavement structures, microbial communities coexist with organisms such as bivalves, serpulids, diatoms, green algae (Acetabularia), crustaceans, foraminifera and micro-gastropods, which are responsible for exoskeleton supply and extensive bioturbation. The internal fabric of the microbial deposits is laminated, sub-laminar, scalloped, irregular or clotted, depending on the amount of fine-grained carbonate and the natural ability of microbial communities to trap and bind particles or induce carbonate precipitation. Nilemah tidal flat contains the thickest ( m) and best-developed microbial sedimentary system; its deposition pre-dated the Rocky Point and Garden Point tidal flats, with the most positive isotope values for δ13C and δ18O, reflecting strong microbial activity in a highly evaporative environment. There is an evolutionary series preserved within the tidal flats reflecting relative ages and degree of salinity elevation."
2077073720	"The Holocene carbonate sediments of Cape Sable, Florida, form a facies mosaic in which facies are controlled by frequency and duration of flooding. The following zones occur: . Flooding -% of the time (supratidal)--massive to crudely bedded sandstone or siltstone, abundant birdseye, low species diversity, high abundance of single species with uniform-sized individuals. . Flooding -% of the time (high intertidal)--low domal and flat laminated algal stromatolites, desiccation cracks and flat laminated pebbles, low species diversity, low abundance of individuals, microscopic invertebrates only. . Flooding -% of the time (low intertidal)--massive End_Page ------------------------------ burrow-mottled silts, moderate species diversity, moderate abundance of individuals, mainly microscopic, with a wide size range among individuals. . Flooding > % of the time (subtidal)--massive pelletal silts and clays, highly burrow-mottled, high species diversity, high abundance and wide size range of individuals within species, many macroscopic invertebrates. Areas of high intertidal and supratidal sediments where ponding of waters occurs for extended periods are characterized by single or multiple algal and sediment laminae much thicker than in areas where waters drain rapidly. Sedimentation in zone forms thin beds, derived from sediment-laden waters driven over the area during storms. In Zone , sediments are deposited in thin laminae; sedimentation is controlled by the trapping of particles carried by tidal currents and binding them onto mats of blue-green algae. Sedimentation in zone occurs mainly in the form of thin beds deposited during storms and subsequently reworked by organisms. In zone , deposition occurs by settling of () in situ sediments; () particles carried into the area by tidal currents; and () particles from sediment-laden storm waters. Measurement of production of calcareous sediment within the Cape Sable area, measurements of the net transport of sediment into the area by tidal currents, and measurement of the volume of sediment deposited in the area since its opening to the sea in the 1920s allow the following calculations to be made. Since , % ( cm/yr) of the total deposit has been derived from in situ production, % ( cm/yr) by net transport into the area on tides, and % ( cm/yr) by storms. End_of_Article - Last_Page ------------"
2077024220000310000000000	"Peritidal ferruginous microbialites form the main bulk of the Middle Eocene ironstone deposits of the Bahariya Depression, Western Desert, Egypt. They include ferruginous stromatolites and microbially coated grains (ferruginous oncoids and ooids). Their internal structures reveal repeated cycles of microbial and Fe oxyhydroxide laminae. The microbial laminae consist of fossilised neutrophilic filamentous iron-oxidising bacteria. These bacteria oxidised the Fe(II)-rich acidic groundwater upon meeting the marine water at an approximately neutral pH. The iron oxyhydroxide laminae were initially precipitated as amorphous iron oxhydroxides and subsequently recrystallised into nanocrystalline goethite during early diagenesis. Organic remains such as proteinaceous compounds, lipids, carbohydrates and carotenoids are preserved and can be identified by Raman spectroscopy. The ferruginous microbialites were subjected to post-depositional subaerial weathering associated with sea-level retreat and subsurface alteration by continued ascent of the Fe(II)-rich acidic groundwater. At this stage, another iron-oxidising bacterial generation prevailed in the acidic environment. The acidity of the groundwater was caused by oxidation of pyrite in the underlying Cenomanian Bahariya formation. The positive iron isotopic ratios and presence of ferrous and ferric iron sulphates may result from partial iron oxidation along the redox boundary in an oxygen-depleted environment."
2059722483	"Abstract Archaean supracrustal rocks that are well exposed in the Marble Bar region, Pilbara Craton, have been assigned to the Warrawoona Group and younger sequences. The predominantly volcanic Warrawoona Group, previously dated at to Ma, is largely basaltic with locally intercalated thick felsic volcanic units. The supracrustal rocks have been folded and are distributed around the margins of large, roughly circular to ovoid, ""granitic-gneissic"" batholiths. A UPb zircon geochronology study was undertaken to obtain precise age constraints for some of the ore deposits in the area, especially the Big Stubby, North Pole (barite), and Miralga Creek (ZnPbCuAu) deposits, in support of efforts to improve Archaean lead isotope models. The results also help significantly in interpreting stratigraphic relationships and crustal evolution in the area. The new conventional zircon UPb data indicate that most of the Warrawoona Group (from the Duffer Formation upwards) was deposited over a period of  Ma, from  Ma to Ma. The age of the Duffer Formation is closely constrained by results of  Ma and  Ma, and the age of the upper Salgash Subgroup appears to be established at  Ma. The Panorama Formation at the southern margin of the North Pole Dome is  Ma; unless the Duffer Formation was deposited over a period of at least Ma, this casts doubt on a previously suggested Panorama-Duffer correlation. The age of the lower part of the North Pole succession is greater than  Ma, consistent with the correlation of the basal greenstones at North Pole with the Talga Talga Subgroup. The North Pole chert-barite unit, which is well known for its preservation of Early Archean stromatolites, microfossils, and evaporite sediments, is clearly older than Ma. The Ma age now established for the Wyman Formation shows that this unit must be excluded from the Warrawoona Group. The age of the Talga Talga Subgroup remains uncertain; a felsic schist in the Mount Ada Basalt, which has been dated at  Ma, is interpreted to be a sill, probably related to the Ma granitoid bodies. An age > Ma for a zircon xenocryst in the Panorama Formation is the oldest obtained so far for zircon from the Pilbara granite-greenstone terrane, and indicates the existence of pre-Pilbara Supergroup sialic basement. Ages of  Ma and  Ma applied to previous Pb isotope data for the Big Stubby and Miralga Creek deposits, respectively, in combination with comparable data for other syngenetic Archaean sulphide deposits, yield a general single-stage Pb evolution model with the parameters T0= Ma, A0=, B0= and C0=. This gives model ages in accord with known constraints for many Archean deposits. A model lead age of Ma for the North Pole deposit, which is older than Ma, may be too great, but attempts to directly date this deposit have not yet succeeded. There are striking parallels between the Warrawoona Group ages reported here and those recently obtained for the Barberton region, Kaapvaal Craton, South Africa. The Talga Talga Subgroup and Lower Onverwacht (Tjakastad Subgroup) sequences have approximately equivalent constraints, and an age for the upper Salgash Subgroup agrees closely with those for the Hoogenoeg Formation of the upper Onverwacht Group (Geluk Subgroup)."
2353300045	"The authors reviewed and summarized the historical and current status and the perspectives of the study on microbial carbonates based on the previous researches.Microbial carbonates were formed by calcified microbes(e.g.cyanobacteria,microalgae,etc.) under the combination of microbial processes,sedimentary processes,and diagenetic processes.Microbial carbonates consist of a variety of types,including stromatolites,thrombolites,dendrolites,leiolites,oncolites,and laminites.Microbial carbonates developed in all geological time,with its great abundance in Meso-Neoproterozoic,showing general declining trend in the Phanerozoic.In addition,microbes play an important role in the formation of primary dolomite,carbonate mud mounds,and the fifth primary sedimentary structures.Recently,the development of the research on microbial carbonates supplements and completes the genesis and classification of carbonates."
2258175727	"The El Paso Formations consists of four members, in ascending order: Hitt Canyon, Jose McKelligon and Padre. Mounds in the McKelligon Member exposed in the southern Franklin Mountains were described by Toomey (). Most of these mounds are small but one large one is m thick and about m long in outcrop. The mound rock is chiefly bioclastic wackestone with minor packstone and boundstone. The varied fauna contains echinoderms, sponges and spicules, gastropods, trilobites, digitate algae, Nuia, Girvanella, Pulchrilamina, Calathium, and minor brachiopods and cephalopods. Intraclastic, bioclastic grainstone fills channels cut in the mounds. Similar, but smaller and less spectacular mounds occur in the McKelligon Member in the Florida, Big Hatchet, and Caballo Mountains, Lone Mountain, Cookes Range, and elsewhere in southwestern New Mexico. A second type of mound is common in the upper part of the Hitt Canyon Member in the Cookes Range, Red Hills, Caballo and Big Hatchet Mountains. These mounds also are typically small but one in the Red Hills is m thick and about m long in outcrop. The mound complex is about -% SH-C and LLH-C stromatolite boundstone and bioclastic wackestone. The remaining -% is bioclastic packstone and grainstone between themore  SH-C stromatolites and filling channels cut in the mound complex. The limited fauna contains small fragments of echinoderms, gastropods, trilobites, spicules, and Nuia. less"
2167815396	"Distribution of limestone, dolomite, and anhydrite as determined from compensated neutron-density logs and core studies of the Ordovician Red River Formation in Richland County indicates that: () virtually all deposition, including the B and C zone anhydrites, occurred subtidally (contrary to previous interpretations invoking localized tidal flats on paleo-highs); () various rock units such as the anhydrites and B and C laminated zones have remarkable uniformity and lateral continuity over many tens of miles; and () dolomitization occurred in subtidal stromatolites, by primary precipitation, or by gravitational seepage of Mg-rich brines into normal marine subtidal carbonates. The lateral persistence of the A and B zone dolomites indicates they formed mainly by primar precipitation and/or dolomitization of subtidal stromatolites whereas the localized replacement dolomites of the C and D zones formed by gravitational seepage of dense brines. End_Page ------------------------------ The C zone dolomite of the Red River is the major oil-producing zone in Richland County. This dolomite occurs immediately beneath the C zone anhydrite as concentrated lenses of: () tight cryptocrystalline anhydritic dolomite, () porous fine to very fine-grained dolomite, and () relatively tight partly dolomitized limestone. The dolomitized lenses are typically one to two km in diameter and up to m thick. They apparently formed beneath holes in the C anhydrite through which dense Mg-rich brines (formed during precipitation of the subtidal anhydrite) seeped. These holes formed almost randomly, probably by hydraulic fracturing as interstitial waters from compacting sediments beneath the anhydrite escaped upward, but minor faulting may have created more linear holes locally. /P> The D zone dolomite along the eastern edge of Richland County also formed by gravitational seepage, but the absence of a D zone anhydrite allowed for relatively laterally persistent dolomitization. Distribution of D zone dolomite was controlled mainly by paleo-topography of the basin floor; the brines filled in lows whereas dolomitization was minor or nonexistent over paleo-highs. End_of_Article - Last_Page ------------"
2167828031000300000000000	"To this day, computer models for stromatolite formation have made substantial use of the Kardar Parisi  Zhang (KPZ) equation. Oddly enough, these studies yielded mutually exclusive conclusions about the biotic or abiotic origin of such structures. We show in this paper that, at our current state of knowledge, a purely biotic origin for stromatolites can neither be proved nor disproved by means of a KPZ-based model. What can be shown, however, is that whatever their (biotic or abiotic) origin might be, some morphologies found in actual stromatolite structures (e.g. overhangs) cannot be formed as a consequence of a process modelled exclusively in terms of the KPZ equation and acting over sufficiently large times. This suggests the need to search for alternative mathematical approaches to model these structures, some of which are discussed in this paper."
2080008481000200000000000	"Abioticbiotic mechanisms of microstromatolitic spicular sinter (geyseritic) initiation and development were elucidated by in situ growth experiments at Champagne Pool ( C, pH ). Siliceous sinter formed subaerially on glass slides placed along the margin of the hot spring. Environmentsilicamicrobe interactions were revealed by periodic collections of incremental sinter growth that formed under a range of environmental conditions including quiescence vs. wave turbulence, and windevaporation vs. steamcondensation. Sinter surfaces were intermittently colonized by voluminous networks of filamentous micro-organisms, with submicron diameters, that provided an extensive surface area for silica deposition. The subaerial distribution of sinter and its textures reflected micron- to centimetre-scale differences in environmental conditions, particularly relating to the balance between wave-supplied dissolved silica and its precipitation, forced by cooling and evaporation. A continuum of sinter textures formed, representing rates of silica precipitation that either out-paced biofilm growth or regulated the structural development of biofilms, and hence also the nature of microbially templated sinter. Massive laminae of porous, filamentous-network sinter and/or fenestrae (up to 10s of microns in thickness and diameter) formed at relatively low rates of silica deposition (approximately mg slide day). At high rates (> mg slide day), densely packed, granular or nonporous sinter formed, with filament networks disappearing into the siliceous matrix and becoming imperceptible under scanning electron microscopy (SEM). Furthermore, spicules were nucleated by filamentous microcolonies, where their discrete conical morphologies were preserved by accretion of thin sinter laminae. Microstromatolitic spicular growth ensued at fluctuating low to high rates of silica precipitation. Greater apical sinter build-up, and hence upward polarity, resulted from focused microbial recolonization and progressively greater subaerial exposure at microspicule tips. The biogenic origin of spicular sinter at Champagne Pool clearly demonstrates that micron-scale biofilms, displaying self-organization patterns common to both biofilms and microbial mats, can be an essential factor in shaping characteristic centimetre-scale sinter macrostructures. These findings suggest that a biogenic origin for geyserites elsewhere should also be considered. Moreover, results corroborate the supposition that microbially generated surface roughness may be significant for stromatolite morphogenesis in cryptic Precambrian carbonates."
2076878424000080000000000	"Deep-water stromatolites are a conspicuous facies in the fore-reef successions of the Upper Devonian reef complexes of the northern Canning Basin. Stratigraphic analysis shows that the stromatolites are present in a diverse range of sedimentological associations which precludes using their distribution to indicate only transgressive or only regressive conditions during reef evolution. All the stromatolites grew at localities where little or no platform-derived sediment could be deposited, either because no sediment was being supplied from the platform or the stromatolites grew at sites protected from sediment gravity-flow deposition. The latter enabled some stromatolites to grow during times of high productivity on the platform (i.e., during high-stands). For example, bioherms developed on downslope sides of allochthonous blocks, near-vertical eroded platform margins, eroded pinnacles, and basement topographic highs, until buried by fore-reef sediment. Other bioherms and biostromes grew on open slopes when little platform-derived sediment was being deposited during times of lowered relative sea level (i.e., lowstand and transgressive systems tracts). These stromatolites record depositional breaks during carbonate or siliciclastic sedimentation, and are typically accompanied by other facies indicative of very slow sedimentation or slope reworking (i.e., bioturbated limestones and intraclastic breccias). Water depths and growth rates remain poorly constrained; however, consideration of stromatolite accumulation within a sequence-stratigraphic framework suggests rates of at least - microns/year. Although this is a minimum rate, it represents a substantial increase on previous estimates of a few microns/year."
2019647482	"The peripheral Messinian evaporitic basins of the Mediterranean frequently show the association between pre-evaporitic laminites, carbonate complexes (red algae, corals, and stromatolites), and evaporites which constitute a sedimentary system, including potential source rocks, reservoirs, and a cover. The pre-evaporitic laminites (mainly diatomites and carbonates) characterize two different highly productive hydrodynamic systems which follow one another: () coastal upwellings during lower Messinian high sea level (transgressive phase), and () restriction (semiclosed or land-locked basins) related to closure from the Atlantic and subsequent lower sea level (regressive phase). Preservation of the organic matter results from periodic water stratification: local O{sub } minimum intermediary layer and anoxic bottom conditions mainly related to hypersalinity. Extensive carbonate complexes overlie the shores and the high areas - biogenic buildups (mainly red algae and poorly diversified corals) and bioclastic accumulations locally overlapped by a stromatolitic blanket. Diagenesis and dissolution-karstification during drawdown periods (hypersaline episodes) increase the primary porosity. The evaporites constitute an efficient cover. One major property of hypersaline environments is their high primary production whose traces are identified in the Messinian series as organic-rich layers (marine or hypersaline-adapted flora and fauna) and calcareous or gypsified stromatolites. Stratified waters or reducing conditions in the pore waters favormore  preservation of organic matter. The evaporitic conditions greatly influence the reservoir properties, increasing porosity or destroying it by interstitial precipitation. less"
2019645618	"Abstract The Superior Province consists of northern and southern high-grade gneiss subprovinces and a central region of alternating granite-greenstone and metasedimentary belts. Subprovinces are commonly fault-bounded and display contrasting lithological assemblages, metamorphic and structural styles, geophysical characteristics, and ages; they are comparable to Phanerozoic suspect terranes. The Middle and Late Archean rocks of the Superior Province are of mantle and juvenile crustal origin with little evidence of inheritance of components older than ca. Ga. High-grade gneiss subprovinces are mainly deeper level equivalents of the supracrustal-rich belts but one, Minnesota River Valley, is part of an older, ca. Ga terrane that was juxtaposed late in the tectonic history. Granite-greenstone terranes are characterized by low-grade volcano-sedimentary sequences (tholeiitic-komatiitic submarine lava plain; tholeiitic-calc-alkalic submarine to subaerial central complexes; early platform-type quartz arenite-stromatolitic carbonate; late Timiskaming-type shoshonitic/alkalic volcanic-fluvial sediment) that range in age from ca. Ga to Ga. The volcanics represent oceanic, island arc, and continental arc volcanism, the quartz arenite-carbonate sequences deposition on relatively stable, early-formed ca. Ga crust, and the Timiskaming-type sequences deposition in pull-apart basins developed along strike-slip faults. Late Archean, ca. - Ga greenstone sequences occur throughout the Superior Province. Middle Archean, ca. - Ga sequences are common in northern and central Superior province, rare or absent in the south. Volcanism was accompanied by mafic to trondhjemitic plutonism. The metasedimentary belts consist of variably metamorphosed volcanogenic turbidites with detrital zircons ranging in age from ca. Ga to Ga. The metasediments were deposited after major volcanism and probably represent accretionary prisms. Late Archean orogenesis, accompanied and followed by calc-alkalic plutonism, youngs southward from about - Ga to - Ga. It involved large-scale north-south compression and dextral transpression and displays thin- to thick-skinned transitions. The contemporaneity of events along the lengths of the belts and their southward younging, coupled with the evidence of major compression, are consistent with subduction-driven oblique accretion of oceanic and continental volcanic arcs, accretionary sedimentary wedges, older microcontinental fragments etc. in a convergent margin setting analogous to parts of the Pacific Rim. Differences (eg. abundance of komatiites and tonalitic plutonic suites) are attributable to a hotter Archean mantle."
2080190877	"Abstract New occurrences of typical Riphean stromatolite and microphytolite groups are reported and illustrated from typical Aphebian sequences in Canada. These include Minjaria, Colonnella, and Kussiella from the Mistassini Group of central Quebec, Gymnosolen, Jacutophyton garganicum, Minjaria, Colleniella, Kussiella, Tungussia, Lenia, Osagia, and Vesicularites from the Belcher Supergroup in Hudson Bay, and Asterosphaeroides (Nelcanella) and Radiosus from the Manitounuk Supergroup of the southeastern coast of Hudson Bay. These occurrences are at variance with prevailing views of Riphean ""biostratigraphy"". They call into question the validity of age assignments based only on stromatolite groups, as well as the premise that prokaryotic evolution is mainly responsible for observed trends in gross morphology. The systematics of stromatolites is re-examined in the second part of the paper, and a more objective, morphometric (stereometric) approach is discussed. Example illustrate how differences and similarites whitin and between stromatolite groups can be expressed quantitatively. The morphologic attributes chosen comprise the shapes of lamina profiles, cross sections (plan views), and longitudinal sections (silhouettes). Microstructures are illustrated photographically; they were not analysed morphometrically and await further study."
2059164979	"Abstract Despite the palaeoecological emphasis of recent stromatolite research outside the USSR, controversy still exists regarding the environmental restriction of these organosedimentary structures and some analogies with modern occurrences have been maintained too rigidly. Palaeoenvironments should be determined where possible by a combination of all biological and sedimentological evidence. In South Australia, Precambrian carbonate rocks contain widespread stromatolites. The absence of independent biological environmental indicators necessitates a reliance on general stratigraphic and sedimentological data for the interpretation of regional palaeogeography and local environmental conditions. The Skillogalee Dolomite contains one predominant form of stromatolite almost throughout its extent, and it chiefly grew as biostromes in littoral and lagoonal settings on an extensive, level, carbonatedepositing platform, probably of restricted access to the open sea. The interspace and associated sediments sho..."
2020303570000310000000000	"This study describes the facies characteristics and the origin of widespread tufa deposits in Antalya Quaternary Basin in southwestern Turkey. The tufa formation covers an area of km2 and is up to m thick. Its generation is related to three major terrace systems that developed during the Quaternary. The upper ( m) and the middle terraces (sloping seaward from to m) are exposed above sea level, while the lower terrace is below sea level ( to  m). The Antalya tufas are classified into ten facies according to the lithological and petrographic characteristics as phytoherm framestone (Pf), boundstone a-phytoherm boundstone (Pb), b-stromatolitic-like tufa (Sl), bedded micritic tufa (M), phytoclastic (Pc), oncoidal tufa (O), intraclastic tufa (I), microdetrital tufa (Md), palaeosols (Ps), pisolitic tufa a-channel type (P), b-pool type (Pp) and intraformational tufa conglomerate (Ic). Process oriented facies analyses, scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and isotopic studies indicate fluvial, marsh, lacustrine and waterfall/cascade depositional environments, all formed through biological and physicochemical effects under cool (ambient) water conditions. Stable isotopic data (δ18O, δ13C) of Antalya Tufa is indicative of cold-water conditions, which are affected by seasonal temperature changes. The 230Th/234U ages obtained from the lower parts of the middle terrace indicate that the deposition started at least prior to ka. On the other hand, 14C ages ( and ka) obtained from the upper parts of the middle terrace indicate that the deposition lasted till at least ka. The upper terrace tufa deposition occurred during Early-Mid Quaternary by tectonic uplift. Following the deposition, the first escarpment was probably formed in Mid Quaternary. Lower and middle terrace depositions are both controlled by eustatic sea level changes and tectonic uplift that occurred during Mid-Late Quaternary. The formation of the second escarpment at the lower terrace (Latest Pleistocene-Holocene) by glacio-eustatic sea level rise is followed by the formation of the third escarpment in the middle terrace (Holocene to Recent) by tectonic uplift and coastal cliff erosion."
2080098387000220000000000	"Reefs were decimated by the Frasnian/Famennian (Late Devonian) mass extinction event ( Ma), and are assumed to have survived only as depauperate calcimicrobial communities dominated by disaster taxa. Description of Famennian proximal reef-slope communities within the Windjana Limestone, Canning Basin, north-western Australia, shows that, notwithstanding the loss of large metazoans, novel ecologies were established in this setting by a rich biota of survivor and progenitor taxa. Diverse calcimicrobes together with algae, crinoids, bryozoans, brachiopods, and abundant sponges (stromatoporoids, inozoans, sphinctozoans, lithistids and hexactinellids) formed a reef framework of either elevated platy structures up to m in diameter and m thick, or mounds up to m in diameter. This framework was dominated by a complex intergrowth of calcimicrobes, where Rothpletzella formed the primary framework, Ortonella, and Girvanella were secondary encrusters, and Shuguria spp. occupied small crypts  mm in diameter. Contiguous columnar stromatolites up to mm in height and m in width grew upwards from substrate sheltered beneath large sheltered primary cavities: based on minimum growth rates of  μm/year these are estimated to have been between and years old. The elevated platy community is inferred to have grown in conditions of episodic siliciclastic sediment input; the reef mounds grew during either episodes, or in localised areas, of low sedimentation. At least morphospecies of spicular sponges are now identified from the Windjana Limestone, where only two were previously documented. These fore-slope reef communities exposed in Windjana Gorge flourished in high-energy carbonate environments dominated by coated grain sediments, and where rapid, early lithification was pervasive.Such observations demonstrate that no protracted interval of time was necessarily required for post-extinction 'recovery' in regions where some reef-building taxa survived and suitable carbonate habitats persisted or returned. Moreover, they show that new ecologies, rather than remnants of the pre-extinction community, could be established rapidly. The reef-slope communities of the Windjana Limestone offer little evidence to support the ideas of resurgence or invasion of taxa from deeper waters after the Frasnian/Famennian extinction. Indeed, there is evidence to suggest that similar microbial-sponge communities were already established in margin and reef slope communities in the latest Frasnian. As such, the most dramatic ecological changes caused by the extinction occurred in back-reef communities."
2353509847	"The Neoproterozoic Jiuliqiao Formation, consisted of sandy, silty and dolomitic limestone, deposited mainly in a shallow ramp environment in Huainan region, Anhui Province. According to event deposits, outcrop sequence stratigraphy, paleontology, stromatolite reefs, three parts of the formation could be subdivided. The lower part is composed of sandy and silty limestones with a thickness of  meters, which include molar-tooth carbonate veins, slump structure and few organisms indicating the violent earthquake events in this part. The mid limestone part with a thickness of  meters is characterized by eight stromatolite reef cycles and five storm deposition cycles. Besides the stromatolite-made cyanobacteria, some acritarchs and macroscopic algae were found in this part. The upper sandy limestone part with a thickness of  meters comprises abundant macroscopic algae, acritarchs and the enigmatic macroscopic worm-like organisms which indicated a flourishing period of organisms. The stromatolites (Baicalia, Inzeria, Jurusania and Minjaria) of the Jiuliqiao Formation had built up different reefs: small scale lenticular and moundy reefs in the lower part, large scale moundy reefs in the mid part, and small scale lenticular reefs in the upper part, which indicated the stromatolite-made cyanobacterias adapting process to different depositional environments. Similar to recent reefs,different microfacies of the Jiuliqiao stromatlite reefs,such as the basement, reef core, fore reef, back reef and reef flank could be separatied in the field, so different reefibuilding stages of the Jiuliqiao Formation, as the stabilizing stage, colonizing stage, diversifying stage,dominating stage and capping stage, could be identified according to the diversification of the stromatolite columns. The reefs could be divided as the storm environment reefs, the transgression reefs and the regression reefs according to their morphological characteristics and their relationships with the depositional environments. Storm events had baffled the reef-building process at first but accelerated the process later, the transgression accelerated the reef-building process, while the abrupt deepening of the water could terminate the reef-building process. The regression process had negative influence on the reef-building process."
2353418133	"Stromatolite and Molar-tooth structure are of interest for geologists.Stromatolites underwent five major declines occurring at Ma,1250Ma,1000 Ma,675Ma and Ma.Recently,according to a non-stromatolitic sedimentary succession in Yanshan area,there might be another stromatolite decline occurring at 1450Ma.Thus,there are six stromatolite declines during geological time and they are comparatively scarce at the present day.The success of stromatolites depends upon synsedimentary lithification and calcification,which are essential for the accretion and preservation to occur.Calcification reflects environmental constraints especially seawater chemistry.Both metazoan influence and seawater saturation state have combined to determine the abundance of stromatolites throughout Phanerozoic.In contrast,for the major part of the Precambrian that seawater saturation state,together with microbial evolution,was the principal factor determining stromatolites development.And the Precambrian enigma is so interesting and confusing,but has not yet been well understood.Molar-tooth structure appears to be limited time and space,only in fine-grained carbonates of Precambrian age,and it also reflects the saturation state of CaCO3.In the secular Precambrian,after most stromatolite decline are frequently developed molar-tooth deposits and MT occurred in the deeper water than stromatolite.Both the molar-tooth structure and the stromatolite can provide meaningful clues for understanding of the Precambrian carbonate world.And the fluctuations in seawater chemistry are also important for us to understand the geological history."
2944266670000460000000000	"The northern Calabria Norian-Rhaetian carbonate platform system is characterized by three depositional units: early-middle Norian Corvino Unit (CU), middle-late Norian Vaccuta Unit (VU) and late Norian-Rhaetian Grisolia Unit (GU). The CU presents a deep barrier reef consisting of an oligotypic framebuilder community of sponges, serpulids, algae, and stromatolitic microbialites. The intra-supratidal facies mainly comprise flat to low-relief, frequently subaerial-exposed, stromatolites and thrombolites, whereas subtidal facies include high-relief stromatolites and skeletal packstones. In the outer shelf, debrites, turbidites, mudstones, and slumped layers are present. In the VU, bioclastic sand-barriers, inhabited by monospecific bivalve clusters (Isognomon exilis) and low- to high-relief small-scale stromatolites, protected a peritidal domain characterized by flat to high-relief thrombolites and stromatolites. The outer-ramp facies include laminated mudstones and tempestites interbedded with sporadic flat stromatolites. Finally, tempestites and marlstones, characterizing the GU shelf, overlie all previous shallow- to deep-water facies, testifying a terrigenous input and the end of the previous carbonate factory. The Norian oligotypic fossil associations of the CU and VU imply anoxia and eutrophy, likely due to limited water circulation, related to basin isolation from the open ocean. During the whole Norian-Rhaetian interval syn-depositional down-faulting pulses was accompanied by gradual eustatic sea-level drop, inducing episodes of isolation and opening of the basin. Tectonic pulses influenced the sequence stratigraphic architecture creating an atypical system-tracts succession characterized by retrogradation of the CU and progradation followed by retrogradation for the VU and GU."
207700963	"Stromatolites, constructed of both calcite and dolomite, occur encased in Pennsylvanian-age siliciclastic lacustrine deposits of southeastern Ohio. As a result of their occurrence and preservation within noncarbonate rock, detailed and somewhat unique paleoenvironmental and diagenetic interpretations are possible. Analyses including stratigraphic, petrographic, X-ray diffraction, microprobe and stable isotopes provide information regarding the microbial community, sedimentation and growth rates, energy, environmental control on stromatolite morphology, and paleosalinity fluctuations. Spherical oncoids, convex-upward hemispheroids and stacked disks which are interbedded with quartz sandstone display internal structure of up to six generations of basal laminae overlain by laminated columns. Crevices between columns commonly contain concentrations of heavy minerals indicating moderate energy and low sedimentation rates. Laminae were precipitated on all surfaces of stromatolites without overturning. On upper surfaces, laminae are thicker and more columnar, whereas on surfaces beneath stromatolites, laminae are thinner, darker and more planar indicating that while precipitation was possible beneath stromatolites, it was inhibited. Stromatolite architecture consists of organically precipitated laminae and columns of calcite and/or dolomite. Voids within the porous framework were infilled initially by stromatolite debris and later by limpid dolomite isopachous cement. Calcite spar filled all remaining pores. Stable isotope data indicate dolomite was derived from hypersaline watermore  whereas calcite precipitated from fresh water. Dissolution surfaces within stromatolites suggest repeated exposure to meteoric water. As much as % of the stromatolite mass resulted from diagenetic processes. less"
207853057	"Living stromatolites consist of complex microbial communities with distinct distribution patterns for different microbial groups. The cyanobacterial populations of Highborne Cay Bahamas exemplify this phenomenon. Field observations reveal distinct distribution patterns for several of these cyanobacterial species. To date different cyanobacterial cultures, including both filamentous and endolithic species, have been isolated from these stromatolites. We will present data on the growth and motility characteristics as well as on the nutritional requirements of these isolates. These data will then be correlated with the field observed distributions for these species. Lastly laboratory simulations of stromatolites grown under various conditions of irradiance, flow and cyanobacterial community composition will be presented. These experiments allow us to evaluate our predictions regarding controls on cyanobacterial distribution."
2382298500	"In the western Qaidam Basin, lacustrine reefs occur in the Neogene and Palaeogene strata.Three types of reefs are recognized: matrix-supported reefs (stromatolites), thrombolite reefs and skeleton-supported reefs (algal reefs). Their characteristics and reef-building organisms are described. The reefs have complex types of pores, such as skeletal pores, body cavity pores, intraparticle pores, corroded cavities, etc. These are excellent reservoir in the study area. The characteristics of seismic responsibility and logging trace of reefs are obvious, and reefs may be identified and predicted according to their geophysical characteristics of cores. Paleontologic, sporopollen, isotopes, palaeomagnetism, geochemistry and physical geography are synthetically applied to discuss the palaeoclimate, palaeolatitude, palaeotectonics, palaeohydrological conditions, palaeosedimentary environment of the Qaidam Basin and uplift of the Tibetan Plateau. The discovery of lacustrine reefs is of important economic significance for the exploration and development of the Qinghai Oilfield."
2079949338000310000000000	"Microbialites (stromatolites and thrombolites) are mineralized mat structures formed via the complex interactions of diverse microbial-mat communities. At Highborne Cay, in the Bahamas, the carbonate component of these features is mostly comprised of ooids. These are small, spherical to ellipsoidal grains characterized by concentric layers of calcium carbonate and organic matter and these sand-sized particles are incorporated with the aid of extra-cellular polymeric substances (EPS), into the matrix of laminated stromatolites and clotted thrombolite mats. Here, we present a comparison of the bacterial diversity within oolitic sand samples and bacterial diversity previously reported in thrombolitic and stromatolitic mats of Highborne Cay based on analysis of clone libraries of small subunit ribosomal RNA gene fragments and lipid biomarkers. The 16S-rRNA data indicate that the overall bacterial diversity within ooids is comparable to that found within thrombolites and stromatolites of Highborne Cay, and this significant overlap in taxonomic groups suggests that ooid sands may be a source for much of the bacterial diversity found in the local microbialites. Cyanobacteria were the most diverse taxonomic group detected, followed by Alphaproteobacteria, Gammaproteobacteria, Planctomyces, Deltaproteobacteria, and several other groups also found in mat structures. The distributions of intact polar lipids, the fatty acids derived from them, and bacteriohopanepolyols provide broad general support for the bacterial diversity identified through analysis of nucleic acid clone libraries."
2020304332	"In the western part of the Anti Atlas, the Cambrian formations known since long (Nice, ; Bourcard, ; Bung & Netlner, ), have been the subject of a very detailed stratigraphic approach. The sedimentological work affecting the lower Cambrian of the Western Anti Atlas is rare. It concerns mainly: a lithostratigraphic description and a summary interpretation of the environmental sedimentary formations. Indeed, recent sedimentological data allowed a new lithostratigraphic division of the Lower Cambrian succession in three lithostratigraphic series. These, are characterized, each one, by a particular microbialitic builds ups, resulted, probably, from Lower Cambrian marine ecosystem variations. The first step, the stromatolitic series, represents a long period in which a large area of the Anti-Atlasic platform was occupied by peritidal cyanobacterial mats. The second step, represented by the Thrombolites series, marks a global sea level rise (Thrombolites proliferation) relayed by a massive silico-clastic supply inputs. And the third stage of evolution during which the medium sufficiently deepened to allow the installation of the distal facies platform. The development of the Archaeocyaths seems to be one of the precursors of dendritic form acquired by certain microbial communities. Dating Neoproterozoic, the Archaeocyaths of Ifrane, whose morphological diversity and the microbial communities associated with them, are a focus for the industry of ornamental rocks in Ifrane in the Moroccan western Anti-Atlas. In this area, the structural diversity of the Archaeocyaths is very pronounced, which facilitates the systematic division and their use in stratigraphy. The perforations or pores vary in number, size and arrangement, those whose walls are stretched in the subdivision pore channels or tubes which may be linear, bent, or inclined in the case of thicker walls. Indeed, the main objective of this work is to highlight the ""Archaeocyathans mounds"" as a geological heritage through the study of varied silico-clastic and carbonate predominate components facies. Regrettably, the surexploitation of the Archaeocyaths in the ornamental industry and mining activities may lead to their death in the absence of regulatory laws of their exploitation. Clues are offered to make the Archaeocyaths a geological site, a geological destination, thing that necessitate the conduct of a number of approaches, the mobilization of various networks of actors but also the establishment or adaptation of infrastructure, home or mediation."
2076794142	"The record of Paleozoic algal diversity is strongly biased toward calcareous and stromatolitic types due to the general paucity of well preserved compression fossils of other taxa. A new genus, Thalassocystis (type species T. striata) is described on the basis of compression fossils in middle Silurian dolomite from the northern peninsula of Michigan. The plant is characterized by a short branched thallus, each branch terminated by an enlarged bladder-like structure. The plants were deposited in a tropical, shallow water marine environment but whether they were benthic, adventive to the pelagic zone, or completely pelagic cannot be determined from the evidence available. RECOGNITION AND CLASSIFICATION of Paleozoic non-calcareous algae is particularly difficult despite the rather voluminous literature on fossils of this type. Impressions and compressions resembling thalli of modern brown algae (Phaeophyta) are relatively common in Paleozoic marine deposits. A number of genera of doubtful biological significance have been erected despite the fact that most specimens of this type appear to consist of an amorphous carbon film with little or no structural detail. As early as , James attempted to define the scope of the form genus Fucoides, to which a large number of these problematic forms had been assigned. Fucoides, Sphenophycus, and Buthotrephis are all form genera which bear a superficial resemblance to modern fucoid thalli. Fentons attempts to verify the biological status of much of the material assigned to these genera (, ) were severely limited by a lack of preservation of distinctive structures in the type specimens. Fucoid-like fossils can actually be produced by a variety of biological entities and it is possible that a significant amount of impression material of this character may actually represent animal tracks or burrows. Only rarely has compression material beensufficiently well-preserved to state definitively that the source organisms were actually algae (Fry and Banks, ). Despite the presumed diversity of algae in marine and freshwater habitats in the Paleozoic, the fossil record for many groups is incomplete. The best representation is found in the stromatolitic blue-green and calcareous green and red algae whose presence is revealed in a variety of carReceived for publication January . Present address: Biological Science Department, California Polytechnic State University, San Luis Obispo, California . bonate reefs and banks of presumed algal origin. The paucity of well-preserved compression material results in a strong bias toward calcareous and stromatolitic types in our perception of Paleozoic algal diversity. The material to be described is in remarkable contrast to the bulk of known compression material in that the major aspects of the external form of the plant thallus are well preserved. The collection site for the fossil material is located approximately two miles east of the town of Manistique in Schoolcraft County, Michigan. The site is on the north shore of Lake Michigan and the fossils occur in light to dark gray dolomites outcropping in the form of gently dipping beds cut into shallow ledges by wave action. The rocks outcropping in this area are part of the Manistique Group (Ehlers and Kesling, ) in the Niagran Series and are essentially mid-Silurian in age. Marine invertebrates and palynomorphs in the exposed rocks at the collection site confirm the Silurian age determination. SYSTEMATIC DESCRIPTION-Thalassocystis Taggart and Parker gen. n.-Marine alga; organism consisting of a branched thallus, each branch terminating in an inflated bladder; bladders elliptical to obovate. Generitype-Thalassocystis striata Taggart and"
2076647823000340000000000	"Abstract The early Earth was essentially anoxic. A number of indicators suggest the presence of oxygenic photosynthesis  million years (Ma) ago, but direct evidence for molecular oxygen (O2) in seawater has remained elusive. Here we report rare earth element (REE) analyses of  million year old shallow-marine limestones and deep-water iron-rich sediments at Steep Rock Lake, Canada. These show that the seawater from which extensive shallow-water limestones precipitated was oxygenated, whereas the adjacent deeper waters where iron-rich sediments formed were not. We propose that oxygen promoted limestone precipitation by oxidative removal of dissolved ferrous iron species, Fe(II), to insoluble Fe(III) oxyhydroxide, and estimate that at least μM oxygen concentration in seawater was required to accomplish this at Steep Rock. This agrees with the hypothesis that an ample supply of dissolved Fe(II) in Archean oceans would have hindered limestone formation. There is no direct evidence for the oxygen source at Steep Rock, but organic carbon isotope values and diverse stromatolites in the limestones suggest the presence of cyanobacteria. Our findings support the view that during the Archean significant oxygen levels first developed in protected nutrient-rich shallow marine habitats. They indicate that these environments were spatially restricted, transient, and promoted limestone precipitation. If Archean marine limestones in general reflect localized oxygenic removal of dissolved iron at the margins of otherwise anoxic iron-rich seas, then early oxygen oases are less elusive than has been assumed."
2059352805000080000000000	"Vein stockworks and lacustrine developments of cryptocrystalline magnesium carbonates of Neogene and Quaternary age occur within the partially serpentinized, discontinuous ultramafic belts of southwestern Turkey. They are comparable to the Neogene cryptocrystalline magnesite bodies elsewhere in the Alpine orogen to the northwest and southeast. Our previous work (Fallick et al., ) suggested that cool (less than or equal to degrees C) modified meteoric water was the mineralizer, that ultramafic rock was the source of the magnesium, but that there were three separate sources of the (bi)carbonate. These sources were distinguishable by their stable isotope composition as follows: () low-temperature carbonate with delta()O((SMOW)) values of similar to per mil and delta()C((PDB)) values of similar to per mil, derived from atmospheric CO2; () moderate-temperature carbonate with delta()O((SMOW)) values of per mil and delta()C((PDB)) values of per mil, derived by decarboxylation of organic-rich sediments; and () higher temperature carbonate with delta()O((SMOW)) values of similar to per mil and delta()C((PDB)) values of similar to per mil, assumed to have been generated by thermal contact metamorphism of Paleozoic marine limestone at depth. In general these magnesite deposits were found to fall into two groups, comprising carbonate generated on two mixing lines. The first group spanned the putative mixing line from the atmospheric source () to organically derived source of CO2 (). The second group extended between atmospheric source () and the thermal source (), although there were concentrations either around the atmospheric end, or precisely at the contact metamorphic end of the line. In the present study we found that large stockwork deposits at Helvacibaba and Koyakci Tepe have delta()C((PDB)) and delta()O((SMOW)) values averaging similar to- and similar to+ per mil, respectively, indicating a derivation mainly by oxidation of organic-rich metasediments perhaps underthrust at depth (end-member ), with some involvement of atmospheric carbon dioxide as bicarbonate in the circulating, hot, and modified meteoric water (end- member ). Calcite veinlets in a meta-argillite of the Cambro- Ordovician Seydisehir Formation, most likely to have been underthrust beneath the stockworks, yielded delta()C((PDB)) values of per mil, consistent with, though not proving, oxidized organic carbon being one of the sources of carbonate. The delta()O((SMOW)) values of these same veinlet carbonates are also rather low ( parts per thousand), indicating precipitation from heated ground water, though their age is unknown. The major stratiform magnesite deposit at Hirsizdere in the center of the Menderes graben has delta()C((PDB)) and delta()O((SMOW)), values averaging similar to and similar to per mil, respectively and thus appears to be an example of the hydrothermal-sedimentary (i.e., exhalative) type (Ilich, ). In contrast, the hydromagnesite stromatolites presently growing in Salda Golu (Lake Salda) are apparently developing at cool ground-water seepages. The gross morphology of the Salda Golu stromatolites and the hydromagnesite sediments derived therefrom is reminiscent of that revealed in the Bela Stena magnesite pit in Serbia. These lacustrine deposits have mean delta()C((PDB)) values of similar to and similar to per mil and mean delta()O((SMOW)) values of similar to and similar to per mil, respectively, i.e., they both plot broadly over the atmospheric CO2-meteoric water field (end- member ), consistent with microbially mediated precipitation at cool ground-water seepages in enclosed evaporating lakes."
2059438860	"Abstract Stromatolites forming today on a small scale in hydrothermal environments are chemical and biological analogues of much larger Precambrian formations. Carbon isotopic composition varied as a function of CO concentration, pH, and species composition. Stratiform, layered stromatolites grew in silica-depositing springs at  to C; they consisted mainly of a unicellular alga, Synechococcus, and a filamentous, photosynthetic bacterium, Chloroflexus. These thermophiles become enriched in C as the concentration of carbon dioxide in the effluent waters increases. At a concentration of ppm total inorganic C, and δ C of organic carbon was  %., whereas at ppm total inorganic C, the δ C of similar species was  %.. Conical stromatolites or conophytons (principally a filamentous, blue-green alga Phormidium and Chloroflexus ) grew at C. In older, broader conophytons, Chloroflexus was the dominant organism. Their δ C values were  %. in a variety of hot springs. In carbonate-depositing springs, i.e., carbon dioxide saturated, conophytons and stromatolites consisting of a variety of blue-green algae and photosynthetic bacteria had the most negative δ C values (to %.). These carbon isotope ratios are directly comparable to carbon isotope ratios of kerogen from Precambrian stromatolites. The presence and activity of methanogenic bacteria or heterotrophic, aerobic and anaerobic bacteria did not alter significantly the δ C of the original organic matter. The hydrogen isotopic fractionation between thermophilic organisms and water is to  for temperatures of  to C, respectively. Acidophilic algae fractionated hydrogen isotopes to a lesser extent than did the photosynthetic organisms inhabiting neutral pH springs. Because organic matter retains some of its original isotopic signature, relationships of CO levels, pH, temperature, and species composition between modern stromatolites and their environment and those of the Precambrian can be inferred."
2076998498000290000000000	"Abstract Diverse stromatolitic structures are recognized in the Meso-Neoproterozoic basins in southern East Siberia: simple (bioherms and biostromes), individual, barrier, shore reefs and reef-like structures, and large reef-like banks. These data and results of macro- and microscopic studies of stromatolites point to the leading role of microbial communities in the production of primary carbonate material. Most of the carbonate mud was supplied to the deep-water shelf zones, slopes, and plains of the Meso-Neoproterozoic East Siberian basins from shallow-water shelves. Analysis of the materials from almost all Precambrian carbonate complexes shows that the microbial communities have played the leading role in the generation of carbonate material since the Late Mesoarchean. Both the shallow- and deep-water Precambrian carbonate sedimentary systems have much in common with the Phanerozoic ones. Their diversity and development are controlled by a number of factors, which exert different effects in geodynamically different basins, and the carbonate systems of different ranks are fine indicators of various events in the basin evolution, from the low-amplitude eustatic fluctuations of the sea level to the global epochs of flooding and highstand of supercontinents. The absence of lime-producing organisms in the Precambrian determined the similar composition of carbonate rocks and sometimes the indistinct structure-morphologic differentiation of the Precambrian organogenic structures. The evolution of reef systems in the Precambrian was determined first of all by the evolution of the lithosphere, which periodically led to the formation and cessation of development of basins favorable for the mass evolution of microbial communities, and by the structural complication of microbial communities producing stromatolites. The epochs of stromatolite formation reduction and destruction of sea basins correlate well with the global epochs of the formation and highstand of supercontinents."
2382278751	"Lower Cambrian and Neoproterozoic strata are well developed in Huaibei, northern Anhui Jiangsu, eastern China. However, researchers pay little attention to investigate the Cambrian/Neoprotero zoic boundary, several different proposals for that boundary in the past literatures exist some unsolved problems. On the basis of detailed lithologic study with well preserved Cambrian small shelly fossils and Neoproterozoic carbonaceous remains and stromatolite assemblages, it is suggested here that the Cambrian/Neoproterozoic boundary could be placed at the interface between the Changping and Gouhou Formations. In addition, we correct the so called Lower Cambrian ""Houjiashan Formation"" to be ""Changping Formation"" in the working area because the lithology and fossils of that Lower Cambrian unit are much similar to the Changping Formation that is widely distributed in the adjacent North China Platform."
2381872759A1994NQ35300014	"Columnar stromatolites have been discovered in two beds of the upper part of the Nihewan Formation, a series of lacustrine deposits. The structure of the stromatolites is characterized by alternation of light, intergranular pore-rich laminae and dark, organic substance-rich laminae. Abundant filamentous algal remains have been discovered in stromatolite laminae, some of them are similar to the species present on the shore of the Caribbean Sea that are living in warmer climate than in the Nihewan area now. With the ESR and U-series age methods, it has been determined that the ages of the lower and upper stromatolite beds are about and a B. P. , respectively. Compared with many other geologic events taking place during the period in Northern China, we conclude that the two stromatolite beds were formed during the two warmer stages of the Last Interglacial."
2382329205	"In western Qaidam basin, abundant Tertiary lacustrain stromatolites have been discovered recently in several kilometers Miocene strata from lower member of lower Ganchaigou Formation to lower Youshashan Formation in Ganchaigou area. The stromatolites, greatly variable in type and genesis, may partly reflect the Precambrian analogues and further be in contrast with the modern stromatolites, therefore it is of important significance for the international stromatolite research. According to the recent study and trend, the stromatolites in western Qaidam basin may be classified as skeleton, agglutinated and fine-grained types which also imply different genesis. The skeleton stromatolites is formed through microbially biological mineralization and calcification combined with in-situ precipitation; the agglutinated stromatolites are mainly related with binding and trapping performed by prokaryotic and eukaryotic algae together; and the fine-grained stroamtolites are mainly formed through biofilm calcification, over-saturated calcite precipitation on the biofilm and microbial chalk precipitation. Overall, the frequently fluctuated lacustrine conditions and the surrounding tectogenesis are mainly responsible for the greatly varied form, different genesis of stromatolites. The detailed discussion and study on Qaidam examples will offer valuable modern analogues in the research of sedimentology and environmental science."
3043762725	"Modern microbialites, a specialized microbial mat that precipitates carbonates, have been thought over the last two decades to be extremely rare, with some in Shark Bay, Western Australia; Highborne Cay, Bahamas; and Cuatro Cienegas Basin, Mexico. Like their fossilized ancient cousins, the stromatolites represent the oldest evidence for life on Earth (~ Gya), and modern microbialites are prevalent across the globe and have colonized most environments. Many of these microbialite-forming ecosystems have been used as models for astrobiology and NASA mission analogs, including Shark Bay, Pavilion, and Kelly Lakes. This perspective will discuss the global distribution of modern microbialites, their use as astrobiology/NASA mission analogs, and the wealth of information already yielded from 'omics studies obtained from these ecosystems."
220200694	"Cette etude traite de levolution dun bassin messinien, a termes evaporitiques du Levant espagnol ainsi que de son histoire pliocene et quaternaire. Dans un premier temps, lanalyse des depots, sous les aspects lithologique, sedimentologique et micropaleontologique est effectuee; des evaluations bathymetriques et paleoenvironnementales en sont degagees. Les rapports geometriques des differents corps sedimentaires et notamment ceux des carbonates et des evaporites du Messinien, sont deduits de la carte au I: et des observations de terrains. Differents processus sedimentaires aussi bien chimiques (sulfates), biosedimentaires (constructions a Annelides, stromatolithes, recifs a Algues rouges et Porities) que tectono-sedimentaires (seismites) sont abordes dans des etudes thematiques. Une troisieme partie degage limportance des mouvements tectoniques et leur interactions sur la sedimentation notamment au Messinien et a la limite mio-pliocene ou des olistolithes se mettent en place tandis que des failles normales sont responsables de la complete reorganisation de la paleogeographie. La quatrieme partie est consacree a la reconstitution du bassin de San Miguel de Salinas et de ses bordures carbonatees tant sous les aspects sedimentologique, bathymetrique, geometrique, paleoecologique que dun point de vue tectono-sedimentaire."
2383357335	"By extensively reading,contrasting and analyzing a variety of references of the formation and classification methods for microbial carbonate,it is found that some kinds of microbes,such as cyanobacteria,sulphate-reducing bacteria,methanogenic bacteria and so on,in their metabolic activities can change physiochemical conditions of microenvironment,which results in the precipitation of Ca2+ and Mg2+,microbes also can catch and adhere allochthonous grains and can be self-calcified,all activities above finally cause the formation of microbial carbonate rocks.On the basis of the formation mechanism and macrofabrics microbial carbonate can be classified into stromatolite,thrombolite,dendrolite and leiolite,which preliminarily established classification system and was a great progress in carbonate sedimentology.In addition,Oncolite and Laminite also with special macrofabrics and important geological significance should belong to microbial carbonates in parallel with stromatolite,thrombolite,dendrolite and leiolite."
2383149483	"The carbonate rock in the Huatugou oilfield is mainly distributed in the top of the Shangganchaigou Formation and the base of the Xiayoushashan Formation, interbedded with sandstone and mudstone. Laminar algal limestone and stromatolite algal limestone are very good oil reservoir beds in the Huatugou oilfield. The scale of development and reservoir quality of laminar algal limestone and stromatolite algal limestone are controlled by the sedimentary environment, early solution and late cementation."
2077274745000260000000000	"Abstract The Middle Cambrian Wheeler Formation in Utah is renowned for its exceptionally preserved fossils. Herein, geophysical techniques (gamma ray spectrometry and magnetic susceptibility), carbonate analyses, lithofacies, and fossils are used to characterize limestones and calcareous mudrocks of the upper portion of the middle Wheeler Formation and the upper Wheeler Formation in the Drum Mountains, West-Central Utah. This succession was deposited on a mixed carbonate-siliciclastic ramp within the House Range Embayment, an eastward incursion of deeper water, created and bounded on the southeast by a normal fault. Geophysical data clearly reveal variations in carbonate versus clay content. Observed patterns among outcrop geophysical data, lithofacies, and fossils are interpreted within the contexts of relative sea level changes and a sequence stratigraphic model. Above a basal interval of rhythmically-bedded limestones interpreted to have been deposited on the middle part of the ramp during a period of relatively low sea level, lithofacies, rising gamma ray and rising magnetic susceptibility track a transgression, which culminates in a maximum flooding surface (MFS). This MFS is near the base of a ""hot zone"": an ~ -m-thick interval of exceptional preservation (Konservat-Lagerstatte), highest magnetic susceptibility, highest gamma ray values, highest clay content, and with a bulk carbonate content of ~ %. The basal layer of this zone contains abundant, fully articulated specimens of agnostids and tiny polymerid trilobites. Exceptionally preserved fossils, such as non-trilobite arthropods, priapulid and annelid worms, hyolithids, phyllocarid arthropods with soft parts, algae, and fragile sponges, are much more abundant within this hot zone than in other strata of the succession. These specimens are preserved in very thin-bedded to laminated mudrock, only rarely interrupted by macroscopic signs of bioturbation. Stratigraphically above the hot zone is a thick unit of mudrock in which both gamma ray and magnetic susceptibility decrease, gradually at first and then precipitously to very low levels; in concert, few soft-bodied specimens have been recovered from this upper interval. The gradual decrease in geophysical responses is interpreted to be the result of gradual shallowing during highstand, caused mainly by progradation of the carbonate factory; it was followed by an abrupt regression. Mudrocks are capped by burrow-mottled grainstone and stromatolitic boundstone, representing a lowstand or the earliest transgressive phase of the next cycle. These observations lead to the following conclusions: () the upper Wheeler Formation represents most of a third or fourth-order cycle of relative sea level change on a mixed carbonate-siliciclastic ramp, rather than a period of shallow-water lagoonal sedimentation as previously proposed; () superimposed on this overall cycle are several (perhaps many) higher-order fluctuations in relative sea level; () when the present results are coupled with results of earlier workers, who interpreted the lower and middle Wheeler Formation as a major transgression and regression, the Wheeler Formation of the Drum Mountains involves two major sea level cycles, rather than one; () the Konservat-Lagerstatte was preserved in the deepest-water, early-highstand portion of the upper Wheeler sequence; and () these results support earlier hypotheses that Konservat-Lagerstatten in mixed carbonate-siliciclastic successions are most likely to occur during late transgression to early highstand, given that low energy, anoxic conditions prevailed."
1973783566000260000000000	"Conical stromatolites are thought to be robust indicators of the presence of photosynthetic and phototactic microbes in aquatic environments as early as billion years ago. However, phototaxis alone cannot explain the ubiquity of disrupted, curled, and contorted laminae in the crests of many Mesoproterozoic, Paleoproterozoic, and some Archean conical stromatolites. Here, we demonstrate that cyanobacterial production of oxygen in the tips of modern conical aggregates creates contorted laminae and submillimeter-to-millimeter-scale enmeshed bubbles. Similarly sized fossil bubbles and contorted laminae may be present only in the crestal zones of some conical stromatolites billion years old or younger. This implies not only that cyanobacteria built Proterozoic conical stromatolites but also that fossil bubbles may constrain the timing of the evolution of oxygenic photosynthesis."
2084468511	"The carbonate system of marine-derived brines and its stable isotope composition are described. The study was conducted in the evaporation pans of a solar salt production plant (simulated sabkha environment) in which ca. % of the evaporation area is dominated by microbial mat communities (MMC). MMC are the modern equivalents of fossil stromatolites as old as Early Archean; hence, investigation of the impact of their photosynthetic activity on the carbonate system in the aquatic environment is relevant to the research of the ancient carbon cycle.Total dissolved CO2 (CT) decreases by ca. % of its original value as brine concentration increases from to times ""mean"" seawater. Roughly % of the original total alkalinity is precipitated as calcium carbonate at this salinity range. The relations between total alkalinity AT and CT (both normalized to salinity) suggest that the brines are depleted in CT by up to % with respect to equilibrium with atmospheric CO2. This large CT deficit is driven by the intense photosynthetic activity of the MMC. Considerable depletion in 13C was observed despite the photosynthetic activity which normally causes a 13C enrichment in CT. δ13CT values down to %. were observed in brine concentration range of to times ""mean"" seawater. We suggest that the CT deficit is causing an invasion of isotopically light CO2 from the atmosphere into the brine driven by chemical enhancement similar to that observed by Baertschi () and Craig (, ) in alkaline solutions. Mass balance calculation for one of the evaporation pans is compatible with the suggested mechanism of chemically enhanced atmospheric invasion of 12C enriched CO2. This kinetic isotope fractionation may serve as an alternative explanation to that of fresh water runoff for some negative δ13C values of laminated carbonates from evaporitic sections found in the geological record. In addition, at least part of the large scatter observed in the δ13C vs. age curve for carbonates and organic matter from Precambrian stromatolitic environments may be explained by this mechanism rather than by late metamorphism and maturation processes."
2085018997	"Fossiliferous deposits are assets of the Union, and the DNPM (National Department of Mineral Production) is responsible for controlling their extraction in the country, for providing means to ensure that the paleontological heritage is protected, and for preventing illegal collection of fossils. The DNPM also resolves conflicts between the legal extraction of mineral resources and the protection of fossils of great scientific or cultural value. With this objective in mind, the Inspection Board of DNPM implemented a monitoring program in Sao Paulo State for identifying areas where mining is in conflict with the preservation of the fossils already known by the geoscientific community. This program prioritized the inspection of limestone quarries in Sao Paulo State where Permian rocks of the Irati Subgroup (Parana Basin) are mined. These fossil deposits are of scientific interest and educational relevance due to the presence of mesosaurus, invertebrates and trace fossils. The inspection found no significant conflict between extraction activity and fossil preservation, although in the Santa Rosa de Viterbo quarry, an exceptional situation in relation to other quarries was found: the occurrence of well-preserved domal stromatolites of metric sizes, whose deposit is being mined for soil corrective. The Permian stromatolitic deposits that outcrop in the Santa Rosa de Viterbo quarry are the only known occurrences of the Parana Basin and are also rare when compared to other world Phanerozoic calcareous deposits. Faced with the need to ensure that the site where these rare fossils have been found is effectively preserved, the DNPM imposed a ban on mining in an area of about m² located in a inactive part of the concession area, preserving representative exposures of the deposit, protecting the area against mining operations, and allowing easy access to the preserved area. This demonstrates that geoconservation initiatives are feasible in mining areas and that cooperation among government, mining sector and geoscientific community should be sought."
2240947733	"Abstract The Hurricane Cliffs tongue is proposed as an informal name for a thin ( feet thick) carbonate unit interbedded with clastics and evaporites in the uppermost (Woods Ranch) member of the Toroweap Formation of Lower Leonardian age in northwest Arizona. The carbonate unit represents several brief pulses of marine transgression from west to east during the generally regressive phase of late Toroweap deposition. The western or more marine facies is dominated by packstones and wackestones containing the shells of a single species of the genus Schizodus. Oolites, often Schizodus-bearing, are also present and appear to be localized along several faults in the area. More nearshore facies represented by aphanitic dolomite are often petroliferous and may show varying degrees of siiicification. To the east and south, intertidal and supratidal facies appear as stromatolites and gypsum deposits with associated sandstone. The gypsum appears to have been deposited in a coastal sabkha environment. Contorted and gnarlybedded sands are associated with the supratidal deposits, and appear to have formed as a result of syndepositional or post-depositional gypsum removal. This interpretation is supported by the presence of deformation features in the sand and of the stringers of texturally similar sand interbedded with gypsum where gypsum is found in thick sequence. Dune sands prograded over the sabkha deposits in the east. The contact of the Toroweap with the overlying Kaibab Limestone in some localities shows channels cut into the Toroweap sands. In other areas, angular blocks of Kaibab are found embedded in the contorted Toroweap sandstones, further evidence of gypsum removal and resulting collapse of surrounding rock."
2085021597000260000000000	"Examination of Lower Triassic carbonate rocks from around the world has revealed the resurgence of atypical carbonates that were last common during the Proterozoic ('anachronistic facies'). Anachronistic facies are attributed to a combination of post-extinction paleoecologic factors and widespread, harsh environmental conditions, particularly the presence of anoxic, alkaline waters in the global ocean. The marine rocks of the Moenkopi Formation (Virgin Limestone) of southern Nevada and laterally equivalent deep-water limestones of the Union Wash Formation of east-central California provide a means to reconstruct depositional environments across a Lower Triassic carbonate ramp and place the atypical facies and fabrics that occur within those rocks into a larger 'Anachronistic Platform Model.' Examination of shallow subtidal and intertidal facies reveal widespread ooid shoals in both the Union Wash Formation and Virgin Limestone, as well as the presence of small, fringing stromatolite bioherms in shallow su..."
2001167358000080000000000	"Lower Cambrian shallow-water carbonates enclosing microbial structures are documented for the first time from the upper Lastours Member of the Montagne Noire (southern France). Microbial organisms constructed self-supported boundstones resulting in the formation of exclusively microbial-accreted buildups, which exhibit three main types of non-skeletal microbialites: planar stratiform stromatolites, dome-shaped stromatolites and nonlaminated (thrombolitic) biostromes. In addition, thrombolitic boundstones display four distinct microbial microstructures: clotted and Renalcis -like forms, branching bushy forms, clusters of unbranching straight filaments and crustose forms. The upper member of the Lastours Formation records an upward transition from a shalydominant open shelf to a protected shelf environment bounded by a surface representing a major subaerial exposure. Initially, at the inception of the highstand systems tract, flat stratiform stromatolites formed on open sea subtidal shaly substrates, while stacked domal stromatolites developed in peritidal areas which record subaerial exposure. In contrast, prograding shoal barriers of the transgressive systems tract favoured the establishment of thrombolitic boundstones in protected (back-shoal) environments."
2998648745000500000000000	"The beginning of the Late Paleozoic Ice Age was characterized by localized events with small ice depocenters occurring in South America and a series of cyclic shallow-water limestones in far-field regions, in late Visean to Serpukhovian. This paper documents two topmost ViseanSerpukhovian sections in Guangxi, South China: a stromatolite-bearing deep-water succession in Helv village and a shallow-water succession in Dujie village. Seventeen microfacies types have been recognized and grouped into six microfacies associations. The vertical evolution of the microfacies associations from deep-water to shallow-water depositional environments in both sections indicate a major relative sea-level fall in the latest Visean. The repetitive successions comprising different morphological stromatolites in Helv section and the cyclic alternation of subtidal and peritidal facies in Dujie section imply high-frequency sea-level fluctuations during latest Visean to Serpukhovian, most likely eustatic in origin. The carbon isotope data of Dujie limestone exhibit a pronounced positive δ13C excursion with   in the peritidal deposits. This shift is interpreted as the result of enhanced organic carbon burial in other regions and depletion of the ocean in light carbon. The widespread coeval cyclicity occurring in settings in South China, Western Europe, and North America is most likely the results of glacio-eustatic sea-level fluctuations, possibly with local influences of tectonic movements. This pattern is interpreted to represent the expression of the onset of the major glaciation during the LPIA in low-latitudinal successions."
2287762882	"Traces of microbioerosion are recorded on microgastropods shells that occur in association with recent stromatolites from lagoa Salgada, Rio de Janeiro"
2001155561	"Abstract The oxygen and carbon isotopic composition of surficial carbonates is a key technique for reconstructing past environments and climates. The understanding of modern isotopic systems is, however, a vital first step before applying these techniques to fossil examples. In this study the δ O of aragonite shells from three different freshwater mollusc species and the δ O of tufa stromatalites are analysed and compared to the modern temperature and isotopic regime of the river system in which they form (the river Gipping, Sproughton, southeast England). In all cases this range of carbonates appear to form in isotopic equilibrium with the δ O of modern waters at water temperatures experienced during the summer months. It is, therefore, likely that in Quaternary interglacial deposits of the UK and western Europe the δ O of fossil freshwater molluscs and tufa stromatolite carbonates will provide an indication of past summer temperature regimes and not mean annual temperatures, as has been previously suggested. The paper concludes by discussing the implications of this study for the isotopic analysis of interglacial deposits in Britain and western Europe."
2001570506000350000000000	"Modern microbial mats from Shark Bay present some structural similarities with ancient stromatolites; thus, the functionality of microbial communities and processes of diagenetic preservation of modern mats may provide an insight into ancient microbial assemblages and preservation. In this study, the vertical distribution of microbial communities was investigated in a well-laminated smooth mat from Shark Bay. Biolipid and compound-specific isotopic analyses were performed to investigate the distribution of microbial communities in four distinct layers of the mat. Biomarkers indicative of cyanobacteria were more abundant in the uppermost oxic layer. Diatom markers (e.g. C25 HBI alkene, C20:4_6 and C20:5_3 polar lipid fatty acids (PLFAs)) were also detected in high abundance in the uppermost layer, but also in the deepest layer under conditions of permanent darkness and anoxia, where they probably used NO3 for respiration. CycC19:, an abundant PLFA of purple sulfur bacteria (PSB), was detected in all layers and presented the most 13C-depleted values of all PLFAs, consistent with photoautotrophic PSB. Sulfur-bound aliphatic and aromatic biomarkers were detected in all layers, highlighting the occurrence of early sulfurisation which may be an important mechanism in the sedimentary preservation of functional biolipids in living and, thus, also ancient mats."
2782532314000440000000000	"Cold seeps along the North Anatolian fault in the Sea of Marmara (Turkey) were explored during submersible dives of the Marsite cruise in November when sediments, pore waters and carbonate crusts were sampled at active fluid seeping sites. In this study, we investigate the mineralogy, carbon and oxygen isotopic compositions and the lipid biomarkers of a carbonate crust from the western Tekirdag basin of the Sea of Marmara. This crust exhibits a laminated domal structure that resembles stromatolite. The mineralogy of authigenic seep-carbonate is mostly represented by aragonite associated with minor amounts of high-magnesian calcite. The abundance of pyrite associated with the authigenic seep-carbonate points to very intense bacterial sulfate reduction. The carbon ( to ) and oxygen ( to ) isotopic compositions of the authigenic seep-carbonate crust indicate that carbonate precipitation was related to anaerobic oxidation of methane and occurred in mixtures of bottom seawater with brackish water expelled from the underlying sediments. Abundant microbial lipid biomarkers with negative δ13C values ( to ), confirm that anaerobic oxidation of methane (AOM) coupled with sulfate reduction, was mediated by methanotrophic archaea (ANME) and sulfate reducing bacteria (SRB). Diagnostic lipid fingerprints indicate that ANME- archaea and associated SRB were the prevalent AOM-mediating consortia, which characterize moderate to high methane flow at this site. Moreover, changes in microbial lipid distribution within the carbonate crust suggest a variation in the intensity of methane emission."
2999353934000500000000000	"Modern hydrated Mg rich stromatolites are actively growing along the shallow shorelines of Lake Salda (SW Turkey). An integrated approach involving isotopic, mineralogical, microscopic, and organic..."
2128870311000340000000000	"Microbialites comprise the mineralized record of early life on Earth and preserve a spectrum of fabrics that reflect complex physical, chemical, and biological interactions. The relatively rarity of microbialites in modern environments, however, challenges our interpretation of ancient structures. Here we report the occurrence of microbial mats, mineral precipitates, and oncoids in the Laguna Negra, a high-altitude hypersaline Andean lake in Catamarca Province, Argentina. Laguna Negra is a Ca-Na-Cl brine where abundant carbonate precipitation takes place. Extreme environmental conditions, including high UV radiation, elevated salinity, and temperature extremes, restrict multicellular life so that mineralization reflects a combination of local hydrologic conditions, lake geochemistry, and microbial activity. The resulting carbonates consist of micritic laminae, botryoidal cement fans, and isopachous cement laminae that are strikingly similar to those observed in Proterozoic stromatolites, providing insight into mechanisms of mineralization. Here, increased saturation with respect to carbonate minerals reflects mixing of spring-fed inlets and lake waters, favoring microbialite formation and preservation. This highlights the importance of hydrological mixing zones in microbialite formation and as taphonomic windows to record microbial activity. Recent discoveries of minerals related to evaporating playa-lake systems on Mars further highlights the potential of Laguna Negra to provide critical insight into biosignature preservation in both terrestrial and extraterrestrial settings."
2129019852000340000000000	"Microbial carbonates contain valuable chemical, isotopic and molecular information regarding the Precambrian Earth. They record shallow-water information complementary to deep ocean proxies, such as banded iron formation and black shale. Six groups of well-preserved stromatolites illustrate how the rare earth elements (REE) are used for chemical investigation. The first task is to test whether the REE inventory of carbonate is compromised by clastic, volcanic, or diagenetic contaminants. Once the cleanliness has been verified, the shale-normalized REE pattern can be used to distinguish between marine and lacustrine settings. For marine carbonates, it is possible to distinguish between restricted basin and open marine settings and for thick platform limestones the relative water depth can be inferred from REE systematics. The studied shallow-water stromatolites range in age from to Ga. They contain no evidence from the behaviour of the redox-sensitive element cerium that free oxygen levels in the shallow sea approached concentrations beyond a trace gas by Ga. Compared with abiotic early diagenetic marine carbonate cements, microbial carbonate is strongly enriched in REE. This may itself not yet serve as a biomarker, but it is regarded as a necessary prerequisite for a sample to qualify for biomarker studies."
